Coronavirus Wuhan (2019-nCov) rapidly expands by Southeast Asia. With more than fifty cases confirmed to date, this is the most affected region of the world. But not all countries in the environment, most precarious health systems and highly dependent on tourism and Chinese investments have reacted hastily. The situation in places like Thailand, the country hardest hit after the second world economy with 19 infections, especially fire alarms. For its part, the Philippines announced Sunday the first death outside the Asian power: a Chinese man of 44 years.
"Although the numbers (of infection) outside China are relatively low, there is potential for a much larger outbreak," said the director general of the World Health Organization (WHO), Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, to the state on Thursday the international emergency by the expansion of the coronavirus, which on February 2 leaving a balance of 304 deaths and infected more than 14,000 worldwide. A decision largely based partly explained the need to protect those countries that "do not have the means to control them."
Southeast Asia is a key area in this regard. But while the emergency declaration implies coordination of the international response within WHO, possible new measures could be late in some cases. Thailand already has 19 contagions: one of them is a Thai taxi driver who had shifted their vehicle hit four, all from Hubei (province of which Wuhan is the capital, the epicenter of the virus).
Local infection, also occurred in Japan, triggered the biggest fear Thai authorities: outbreaks in places with large numbers of Chinese tourists. "You can start with a transmission locally and then grow at the provincial level," said the deputy director of the Department of Disease Control Thai, Tanarak Plipat. A not very distant possibility if one considers that, according to the department on Thursday, still about 10,000 tourists from Wuhan are in Thailand. China chartered flight on Friday to repatriate them first.
Thailand has received a barrage of public criticism for its handling of the crisis, with the hashtag "crapgovernment" (Government of shit in English) sneaking among the most popular on Twitter the past few days. The reason: discontent with the measures taken by the authorities, until the middle of last week did not begin to install thermographic controls for all flights coming from China. For many Internet users have prepended preserve the country the arrival of Chinese tourists to ensure public health. Thailand, where tourism accounts for between 12% and 20% of GDP, is the first tourist destination of overseas Chinese. The country estimated losses of between 2,200 million and 2,900 million euros for the fall in Chinese tourism.
In addition to the greater or lesser ability and willingness to implement control measures, another concern is the precariousness of the health systems of many countries in the region. "We do not know what harm can this virus if it expands in a country with a weak health system," remarked the director general of WHO. Cambodia, one of the poorest countries in Southeast Asia, is a clear example. the reluctance of Hun Sen, the Prime Minister: a case detected to date, the health inadequacies of the country where Chinese investment has grown exponentially in recent years, another almost more insurmountable obstacle adds.
"If the prime minister does not bear mask, why going to take the rest," he said this week. Hun Sen, who added that the "real disease is fear," ruled out canceling flights from China to avoid prejudicing the ailing national economy.
Geography is another risk factor. The land borders of the countries in this region bordering China (Vietnam, with three infected, and Myanmar and Laos, Free time of the pathogen) remain open, unlike Russia, which ordered its closure on Thursday. Indonesia, an archipelago of over 17,000 islands, kept under observation two potential infected and claims to have increased controls at its countless entry points.
Meanwhile, although the thriving Singapore was the first country in Southeast Asia to impose more drastic measures to curb the spread of the virus, barring entry to all travelers who have been to China in the last two weeks, cases grow daily, reaching 18 on February 2. Two of the infected Singaporeans are women who were repatriated from Wuhan last Thursday.
Until a few days ago pathogen free, the Philippines was the first country outside China to register a death due to the coronavirus: a Chinese citizen of 44 who had arrived from Wuhan with his wife, also infected. For now are the only two cases in this country that hours before he was confirmed death announced a ban on all trips from mainland China, Hong Kong and Macao.
With China as the main source of tourists for most of Southeast Asia, restrictions on inflows citizens of this country deal a blow to their economies. Malaysia, where there are eight infected, has rejected a controversial popular petition to ban the entry to every Chinese citizen.
Tourism has therefore become a double-edged sword for Southeast Asia. Although it is estimated that the main source of infection, with Chinese traveling up to ten times more abroad than in 2003, according to consultancy Capital Economics -in full epidemic of SARS, another coronavirus then emerged in China, the importance of the sector in the region seems to advise against making drastic decisions.