Who is under great pressure
The pneumonia epidemic in Wuhan, China is increasing. On Thursday, the WHO called again and expert meeting to discuss whether the announcement of the new type of coronavirus epidemic in China will be a "public health emergencies of international concern". Whether who makes relevant decisions is a very delicate issue and is related to the major political responsibility of the agency, the Figaro newspaper reported. This is the second time in just a week that who has called an emergency meeting to decide whether to make a decision.
Figaro also reported that the first batch of French people left Wuhan and returned to France. According to reports, the Frenchmen who left in a hurry did not show symptoms of the disease, but they were in low spirits and most refused to answer questions from reporters. After arriving in France, they were transferred to a resort on the south coast for two weeks.
Despite China's efforts, the epidemic is still spreading
The echo newspaper has published several reports on the spread of new coronavirus in China. The newspaper pointed out that although the official of the World Health Organization expressed appreciation for China's great efforts to curb the epidemic on Wednesday, the fact was convincing: in just 24 hours, the Chinese health organization once again established 38 deaths, leading to the death toll from the new coronavirus to 170. The number of infections in mainland China has reached 7700. At present, more than 80 confirmed cases have been found in more than 10 countries, and human to human cases have occurred outside China, which is not optimistic. Therefore, the second meeting of the World Health Organization decided to declare that it is reasonable to establish China's new coronavirus epidemic as a "public health emergency of international concern".
The spread of the new coronavirus epidemic in Europe is less risky.
An expert opinion published in the echo newspaper points out that if the new coronavirus spreads throughout China, it will increase the risk of epidemic. For the moment, however, Europe faces less risk. The newspaper also reported that some communities around Beijing had taken isolation measures to block the outbreak. The echo also reported Air France's decision to suspend flights to China until February 9. This is another airline that has grounded in China after British Airways and Lufthansa.
Growing uneasiness
In the news of the new coronavirus, the Liberation Daily pointed out that in the face of the rapid spread of pneumonia in Wuhan and the increasing number of deaths, France, like many other countries, began organizing the evacuation of expatriates.
。 Local people's psychological panic is growing, and governments are showing growing concern. At present, more than 10 countries have expressed their willingness to evacuate overseas Chinese to China.
In the past week, the whole pace of life in Beijing has slowed down. According to the tradition, when the festival atmosphere should be filled every year, the streets are empty, and people are forced to stay at home. The biggest challenge facing the government will be how to manage the epidemic.
"Cross" in the report marked "isolated China" report title. Throughout its history, China's great wall has never succeeded in stopping China's invasion, the newspaper said. It also failed to block the spread of new coronavirus to the outside world in twenty-first Century.
In the face of the rapid spread of pneumonia in Wuhan, China, countries have taken measures to close the border, stop flights, evacuate overseas Chinese, and refuse tourists from Wuhan. The next challenge is: how will Beijing prevent hundreds of people from returning to their places of daily life or jobs after the Spring Festival? Especially those Wuhan people who are now in every corner of the world? And those thousands of Chinese tourists who travel around the world, will they be blocked from the Great Wall? And the world will suffer from the effects of oxygen?
