On the 23rd, the closure of Wuhan city shocked the whole world. In any case, after delay, hesitation and even being suspected of concealing, the authorities wanted to show their determination to stop the massive spread of pneumonia in Wuhan. This is the most important news in China, but the front page headline of the people's daily newspaper of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China is "the central leading comrades visit the old comrades". The Central Committee of the Party headed by Xi Jinping visited the former general secretary Jiang Zemin, Hu Jintao, and so on, especially by Xi Jinping. Then Xi Jinping was invited to speak with Germany and the French president, and then Xi Jinping visited Yunnan and went to Yunnan Wa village to hear the new song of the Wa people. There was no headline on the Internet that sealed the city in Wuhan.
Some people question, "is there anything more important than the pneumonia epidemic in Wuhan? Please see people's daily. The common people are regarded as ants; the noble temperament changes the people into kneeling people ". There is an allusion behind this couplet. Not long ago, the party media had an article which touted Xi Jinping's common feelings and aristocratic temperament.
Another netizen wrote: "the mainstream media all over the world are very concerned about the new coronavirus epidemic in China, and have done a lot of reports. Only the Chinese Communist Party media deliberately desalinated the world class epidemic. This is the mode of "governing the country" by Xi Jinping and the Communist Party of China. P's life and death is not a big deal. Tens of millions of people are blocked in the epidemic area without affecting the overall situation.
In the morning saw people's daily arranged in this way, people saw the Beijing people's great hall singing and dancing in the afternoon. Xi Jinping led a group of people to worship in the Spring Festival. Xi Jinping delivered a speech in which he said that the well-off society that the Chinese nation had been longing for for thousands of years was about to become a reality, but did not send a condolence to the suffering Han people. "At the ceremony, the party and leaders of the near Equality Party shook hands with each other, greeted each other, congratulations on the new spring festival, and the writers and artists performed wonderful programs." some people asked, "the whole country is howling, is it good to hear the singing and dancing?"
Deng Yuwen, a researcher at the China strategic analysis think tank, commented: "the central and local governments are rising and dancing.". Everyone seems to be OK. If it is a custom to hold Spring Festival Group worship in Zhongnanhai, adding a few words about Wuhan in Xi's speech will not damage the festival atmosphere, and also highlight the concern for people's livelihood, but not. Of course, they will argue that there should be a festive atmosphere. This is a typical feature of totalitarian regime. As long as the above does not speak, the following will do it even though they know it is absurd
"
The place mentioned here in the "central local singing and dancing promotion" refers to what happened in the "base camp" of Wuhan pneumonia. Just on the 21st, when the situation of Wuhan pneumonia can no longer be covered, the Secretary of the provincial Party committee and the governor attended the group visit with singing and dancing. A city suffering from the new pneumonia, the citizens were frightened all day long, causing the world uneasiness, senior officials, Still in accordance with the inertia, they attended the Spring Festival Group worship party in three cheers and five cheers. They were entertained by wine and banquets, singing and dancing were pleasing to the eyes. What's more, some actors of Hubei National Song and dance troupe who performed the group worship performed "perfect performance" for leaders with illness and injury. The report said, "we all took layers of masks to overcome the panic of pneumonia. The actor Yi Hanzhang ran for a long time and caught a cold. When waiting for the stage, he was cold all over, and after the stage, the fire was fully open. The actresses overcame many difficulties, such as cold and stuffy nose, physical discomfort, and performed perfectly with illness and injury." Social networks in China are full of reviled comments. Wuhan was hit by a major disaster. The leaders of Wuhan delayed to release the disaster situation. Now the whole world is in a hurry. The leaders there still have fun singing and dancing. It's amazing to watch the program. Since Thursday, when tens of millions of people have been blocked from entering and leaving, the behavior of senior officials in Wuhan is even more eye-catching.
It is true that if Xi Jinping has Xi Jinping's delegation, then why can't the Hubei provincial Party Secretary Jiang Chaoliang and governor Wang Xiaodong of Hubei have their own group meeting?
