According to Xinhua news agency, Li Keqiang came to Qinghai Red Cross Hospital on January 21 and said to medical staff, "you are the guardian of people's life and health. It's your glorious mission to save the dead and help the wounded.". Since the outbreak of pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus, the number of cases has been increasing. We must promptly and effectively curb the spread of the epidemic. Medical staff are in the front line. You need to do a good job in the prevention and control of the epidemic, and also do a good job in self-protection. "
Li Keqiang also stressed that it is the Spring Festival and the population is moving intensively. Even if Qinghai is high and far away, it is also necessary to strengthen the risk awareness and "put the work to be done ahead".
The prevention in Qinghai is very good. Wuhan is now behind the scenes. The Prime Minister of the government should go there to express sympathy and concern. At least let the Wuhan people who bear the bad reputation of "Wuhan pneumonia" get a little relief, or let the Wuhan people feel sorry for the whole nation.
Li Keqiang went to Qinghai hospital for inspection and asked for "Wuhan pneumonia" epidemic prevention. Netizens criticized Li Keqiang for "posing for photos", not being professional or even wearing a mask. And netizens have criticized that no matter how disastrous China may be, Chinese officials are able to calm down, smile and "even turn the funeral into a happy event".
Rong Jian, a Beijing scholar, said, "it's the attitude of national leaders to be present at the scene of the disaster. Although its formal significance is greater than its substantive significance, such a form must be made in time. Otherwise, how can it reflect the common weal and woe between the people and the people. What's puzzling is that such scenes rarely appear since the new era. The epidemic in Wuhan has spread. Chinese people expect leaders to have a gesture. Who knows that one went to Yunnan and one went to Qinghai, and remote control command is more than scratching his boots. What's the heart of the people? "
What did Xi Jinping do? According to CCTV, "on the occasion of the Spring Festival of the Chinese nation, the general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, the chairman of the CPC Central Committee and the chairman of the Central Military Commission Xi Jinping inspected the troops stationed in Yunnan on 19 and 20, and went deep into the border line to visit the condolences."
Some netizens naturally think of the scene where Jiang Zemin, Hu Jintao and Wen Jiabao always come to the scene to express their sympathy. Some netizens said, "Jiang went to the front line to command and mobilize in 1998 when a flood broke out in the Yangtze River Basin.". After the Wenchuan earthquake, Hu Wen rushed to the scene of the disaster for sympathy. In the eight years of Xi's reign, however, there have been major natural and man-made disasters. Only when the emperor gives important instructions, can he save all his efforts to show off
"
Indeed, Xi Jinping "remote control", Xinhua reported 20 days, Xi Jinping asked "resolutely curb the spread of the epidemic trend." "We should strengthen the guidance of public opinion" and "resolutely safeguard the overall stability of the society and ensure that the people spend a stable and peaceful Spring Festival". In just a few words, Xi Jinping's thoughts were inseparable from strengthening public opinion guidance and maintaining social stability.
As for his efforts to ensure people's peace and stability during the Spring Festival, at least more than 10 million people in Wuhan feel sad this year, and Wuhan city has been blocked.
