According to the introduction: radcivir is a new experimental broad-spectrum antiviral drug developed by Gilead science company of the United States, which is believed to effectively inhibit the replication of SARS virus and mers virus in respiratory epithelial cells. Although the drug is still in phase III clinical trials against the Ebola virus, the latest news shows that the drug takes effect immediately after being used in a patient infected with "Wuhan pneumonia" in the United States. The news came out that the Wuhan virus Institute immediately applied for patent for Reed's new version of the 2019 coronavirus. In addition, 270 samples of the drug were sent to Beijing China Japan Friendship Hospital for clinical trial of "Wuhan pneumonia" patients.
On Tuesday, the official website of the Wuhan Institute of Virology said that they had applied for a Chinese invention patent for the U.S. new drug readcivir, which had not been officially used yet, as early as January 21, while the day before January 21, the Chinese official just officially announced that Wuhan pneumonia is a serious human to human infectious disease. That is to say, the research on the efficacy of ridacivir by Wuhan Virus Research Institute has been carried out long before that. When Wu Han was ignorant and ignorant that he was at risk of infection, Wuhan's top Chinese Academy of Sciences Virus Research Institute had discovered an effective drug against new official coronavirus without official name.
Sure enough, Wuhan Virus Research Institute is not only mysterious, but also really awesome. Maybe it is really ahead of the virus. But this is where people's fear is now, and it also deepens the worries about the source of various viruses. Many people know that Wuhan Virus Research Institute is the highest level Virus Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, but they do not understand why in the process of the spread of Wuhan pneumonia virus, this institution is extremely low-key. Wuhan's mountains and rivers support this institution for virus research, but Wuhan people have become the biggest victims of the virus. After the outbreak was announced, many factors promoted the Wuhan Virus Research Institute, which was hidden in the boudoir, to the public, but it was still covered with mystery.
As for the rush to register and use patents, Wuhan Virus Research Institute may be motivated to show that it wants to contribute to the country, but it is puzzling because of the use of the term "invention patent". According to Free Asia report, the news ignited public opinion, and netizens left messages to discuss
。 Some netizens said, "do you know who has seized the treatment patent of" ridacivir "in China? Wuhan Virus Research Institute, together with military units, on January 21, rushed to "use ridacivir to treat 2019 new coronavirus patent", and spread the rights and interests to the world through international agreements. What kind of operation is this? "
Some netizens also pointed out that "free drugs from the United States have been patented by Wuhan Virus Research Institute!"! American free open molecular structure, to China's treatment of pneumonia medicine radcivir by the virus by the brand, Americans completely ignorant of it! Let's see how the snake killed the farmer! "
Netizens criticized and said, "it's shameless! Take what others give painstakingly and selflessly, change it a little, and then become your own thing, and register for patent to make a lot of money. " "This is the most shameless thing in the world! We don't try our best to do real work for the anti epidemic situation. We really spend a lot of time on opportunism, striving for fame and wealth for ourselves, and stealing other people's achievements! It's disgusting! " "People all over the world know the fact that the Communist Party is not afraid that the whole world will be besieged and beaten when it plays with hooligans like this?"
Ren Zhao, a Zhengzhou lawmaker, sent an open letter to Wuhan Virus Research Institute on Wednesday, urging it to disclose details of the virus research process. He said that many people had reported the management confusion of Wuhan Virus Research Institute of Chinese Academy of Sciences under their real names, and then deleted the post. The licensing application includes the details of virus preservation and access to the Institute from 2019 to 2020, the details of research and development of coronavirus in the Institute, the detailed documents of research and development process and patent application of radcivir, and the research direction, published papers and detailed resumes of Professor Shi Zhengli in the Institute.
About the source of the new crown pneumonia virus in Wuhan, Chinese officials have cited the source of the virus to the Southern China seafood wholesale market in Wuhan. But Indian researchers recently published a paper saying that four inserts of the new coronavirus were similar to HIV, and they suspected that the outbreak in China was related to the leakage of samples from Wuhan virus Institute.
On February 4, Xu Bo, chairman of the mainland's Duoyi network, tweeted that his real name had reliable evidence as a clue to report to Wuhan Virus Research Institute. Xu Bo cited some basic facts, and attached several evidence links such as "paper published by Shi Zhengli of Wuhan Virus Research Institute".
Xu Bo said that because the epidemic prevention is of great importance, it is suspected that Wuhan Virus Research Institute has mismanaged the experimental animals, causing the outflow of experimental animals, leading to the 2019 new coronavirus epidemic
。 He also stressed, "I clearly believe that the genetically modified virus developed by Shi Zhengli in 2015 is different from the new coronavirus in Wuhan, but there must be a large number of other similar viruses in his laboratory, and then there must be further research on similar viruses, which is the truth that should be investigated."
The White House's chief strategist, ban Nong, said on Monday (February 3rd) that the Chinese Communist Party lied about everything. If the new coronavirus was found to be artificially synthesized, the Communist Party of China would be finished.
