What the Chinese authorities have made is a radical and extreme decision: 11 million Wuhan people can no longer leave the city without finding a special reason. That is to say, "only in, not out". According to the official circular, citizens "do not leave Wuhan" without special reasons.
How can the authorities persuade the people not to panic and try not to "escape" with such a "firm" order? It's a very serious problem. There are already local people on the Internet who say, "prefer to escape rather than wait for death". Although it's absolutely true, it's a terrible thing to think of tens of millions of people being besieged.
The World Health Organization, which urgently held a closed door meeting on Wednesday to study whether to declare a global health emergency on the spread of pneumonia in Wuhan, praised China's decision as "too severe!" saying it would reduce infection outside Wuhan.
Wuhan is besieged by the city. The goal of the authorities is to slow down the spread of the virus to other places. However, some people have questioned that the local medical institutions in Wuhan have been unable to cope with the surge of patients in the past two days. Some netizens have left messages saying that patients have been waiting in line in the hospital all night, and others have been easily dismissed by the hospital. The authorities must pay attention to the possible humanitarian disaster after the closure of Wuhan.
A netizen named Xianzi said, "I wonder why the traffic in the city should stop?"? People can see clearly that the medical system in the city has been unable to sustain, how to maintain the enterprises that stop the subway bus? How do ordinary medical workers go to work? How do ordinary patients get medical treatment? How do patients' families visit? How do old people and patients get medical treatment? " "What's more, how will the medical workers who don't know about it get on duty tomorrow morning?" "Three towns across the Yangtze River in Wuhan are too big for ordinary people to imagine. Without the transportation system in the city, the whole city will be paralyzed."
The netizen also said: "the people of Wuhan have caused us trouble. Can they go out now when the gate is closed?"? We didn't want to go out. What we asked was how can our own life go on? Why do you have to look at people's misfortunes and fall into trouble? " Some netizens said unfairly, "isn't it clear that people should wait for death if they don't run? They want to cause a large-scale panic..."
Another netizen thought: "it's too late to close the city. As for why it's too late, the root cause is delay, concealment and bureaucracy. The low level of local administration was exposed in the incident. For example, they still have the energy to control the review. So what about the residents who stay in Wuhan? I think it's likely to be very tragic
。 Now, just announcing the closure of the city, without mentioning the guarantee of living materials, the stabilization of prices, and the distribution and transportation of health products, shows that it's too late to think about these problems, just to think about lowering the number of imported cases nationwide first. And the speed of building the isolation zone in Wuhan is probably not able to catch up with the speed of infection. I'm afraid that those who stay in Wuhan will not be treated in time if they are infected... "
Perhaps China's "drastic decision" led to the extension of who's meeting, at which the organization should have made a decision on whether to declare that Wuhan pneumonia has triggered a global health emergency. The world organization may be on the sidelines, continuing to meet from 11 o'clock international standard time on Thursday.
However, in a huge city with more than 10 million people, how long can the city's public transportation ban be maintained is questionable. If it is maintained forcefully, will it lead to the city's failure to operate and lead to serious humanitarian disaster?
At present, this SARS, which caused 348 deaths in mainland China, 298 in Hong Kong, 84 in Taiwan and more than 800 deaths in the world, is also called SARS. Wuhan pneumonia of the same family has spread to several countries in Asia, and the first case has been found in the United States.
According to China's latest official data, pneumonia in Wuhan has killed 17 people. More than 500 people have been diagnosed with the virus, and the situation continues to deteriorate.
