According to foreign policy, the news of Li Wenliang's death spread like wildfire in social media. Li Wenliang's news and the "admonition letter" that he was forced to sign constantly appeared on the Internet, which was soon deleted by the inspection authorities, showing that the government was facing a tough choice: whether to embrace a person who was killed by the official decision, to completely blame the Wuhan authorities, or to continue to delete his name and photos, to clamp down the story of another potential martyr?
According to the report, Li Wenliang was diagnosed with the new coronavirus on January 1, but he is not the first and not the last front-line medical staff to lose his life because it is estimated that more than 500 medical staff have been infected.
The official media of the Communist Party may not know how to report his news, but it is much more difficult to release the news of his death, especially as Beijing is trying to suppress journalists, doctors and ordinary people talking about the epidemic.
According to the report, it is not only the new coronavirus that killed Li Wenliang, but also the practice of concealing the virus that Li Wenliang and others tried to warn people, which has killed hundreds of people so far.
The New York Times reported that even before Li's death, Dr. Li had become a hero to many Chinese after the way authorities treated him was revealed. The news of his death set off a more violent mood swings. "We will not forget Dr. Li, who has a disease called rumor," said one commentator "What else can we do? The only thing you can do is not to forget. "
Bloomberg News reported that the Xi Jinping administration has been trying to transform the anxiety of the public to the outbreak of the new coronavirus (Wuhan pneumonia) into a "patriotic trend". But the death of the anti epidemic hero Li Wenliang has aroused popular resentment, and has rarely led to a crisis of confidence in China. The report quoted a student from Wuhan, who did not want to be named, as saying: the government has always suppressed the news, blocked information, whitewashed peace and never learned to introspect or correct itself, which is a kind of deadly corruption.
