At the beginning of the new year, there are many big events. The first to bear the brunt of this is the general election in Taiwan. Cai Yingwen, the Democratic Progressive Party, has won the second term of office. The farther Taiwan goes, the more common the Taiwan demands that the 92 consensus of Taiwan will become the box office poison.
The result of Taiwan's election upset Beijing. Then came the signing of the first phase of the Sino US trade war, which meant the truce of the trade war. However, many Chinese were dissatisfied with the details of the agreement: China promised to buy 200 billion US goods in the next two years, but the United States would continue to maintain most of its tariffs on China until China would one day sign a more sensitive second phase agreement. As a result, China broke out Liu He, the vice premier of the State Council, who was signed on behalf of Xi Jinping, was accused of signing the "Shimonoseki treaty" which ceded Taiwan to Japan, under the pressure of Japan. When people are discussing whether China or America will win or lose, whether the United States wins or loses, Xi Jinping suddenly learns a strange incident when Han Xin learns to endure the humiliation of her humiliation. A woman named Gao Lu, who is known as the third generation of the third generation, has been angry at all over China in the the Imperial Palace. Racing is a reputation. In fact, it's to show off when the Forbidden City is closed for a while. Because it's a forbidden area, people who can drive in take pride in it and post pictures. All of a sudden, the focus of public opinion focused on the "Big Ben".
Once this happened, China's anger also reduced the pressure of the official signing of the trade agreement to be accused of humiliating the country. Some people suspected that the official public opinion took the opportunity to guide the public opinion rhythmically. The public opinion was like a tide, one drowned, and the Imperial Palace racing thus drowned the "alliance under the city of Liu Hongzhang". Whether this is true or not, it doesn't matter how significant it really is, you don't see it, you don't shift your eyes, mainland China Chaos, at the beginning of the new year, has overwhelmed the authorities. Cai Yingwen, who is regarded as Taiwan independence and reelected, is regarded as the first stage trade agreement of the city's alliance. In China, the accusation of Xi Jinping's regime is coming one after another, suddenly appearing a "red two hundred and fifty" that can't hold its weight. With the piety and superstition of the former residence of the feudal emperors, the superiority of being able to enter the forbidden place that others can't enter is difficult to sell, so it is difficult to sell the joints. All over the world, you need to take a car and get a license to show off. Another thing is brought out by the speed racing in the Forbidden City. Some people say that the "galloping in the Forbidden City" is not as good as the "wedding in the temple". Taimiao is also a famous "national key cultural relics protection unit" comparable to the Imperial Palace in Beijing. It was once the Royal ancestral temple of Ming and Qing Dynasties. After the founding of the Communist Party of China, it was changed into the "labor people's Cultural Palace" in 1950
。 "Taimiao wedding" means that on September 9, 2009, ye Mingzi, granddaughter of Ye Jianying, the founder of the Communist Party of China, held a grand wedding with an American banker at the Beijing Taimiao where "emperors of Ming and Qing Dynasties worship their ancestors". At that time, the whole wedding was decorated with red roses, and luxury wedding cars came in and out. I don't know why this matter didn't arouse the public outcry? It seems less extravagant to have the words "labor people's Cultural Palace" to help, but in fact, it is not related to the labor people.
"The Forbidden City Mercedes Benz" is different from Guo Meimei, who subverted the Red Cross Society of China. She took selfie and boasted. She wanted to turn over the envy of others and sell herself. What's more, she succeeded in bringing hatred to the three generations of the Red Cross and their parents as a whole. According to some analysis, what Guo Meimei and Gao Lu did is actually a kind of subversion to the powerful groups. The only difference is that the former is grassroots, and the latter is a granddaughter-in-law of he Changgong family who seems to have the name of a poor man and started with the Communist Party. It's said that it's fake to eat her ancestry or eat Qingchun without really relying on her own. Some netizens are sarcastic. But the forgeries are in the present China, so eye-catching, also shows that the society is not ashamed, has reached the peak.
It took less than two days. The real thing is that Wuhan pneumonia and Wuhan pneumonia have come early. People are saying that they are watching overseas. However, in order to maintain stability, the authorities are dodging. As a result, more and more people have got fever. The fever is getting higher and higher. Wuhan hospitals have broken out, spilling over to other provinces of China, Asia, the world, and so on Ping finally came out to talk. The political and legal commissar of the Communist Party of China still said that Whoever conceals the report is a sinner for a long time. The netizens asked, "what have you done long ago?" If Wuhan police don't catch those who spread the news of Wuhan pneumonia, don't block the Hong Kong media that came to interview them, maybe they won't delay the time when hundreds of millions of people are migrating intensively. Xi Jinping declared that the number of dead people increased from nine to 17 overnight, and the number of confirmed cases increased rapidly. This cold in Wuhan, the whole world is shivering. In 2003, the complete version of the scene of SASAS is repeated. Who else needs to be distracted?
The regime is most afraid of instability. It is desperate to maintain stability. It has reached an extraordinary level. Lawyers for safeguarding rights have been arrested. Citizens who report fever in Wuhan have been accused of causing trouble until the day when they can't cover it up
。 From the experience of how to track and intimidate journalists, to the explosion of Xiangshui chemical plant, to the growing African swine fever, the first task of the authorities is not the truth, but to maintain stability, until it can no longer be stable.
Some people use black swan and crow to compare the two disproportionate things that happened before: if Wuhan pneumonia is the first black swan in the 1920s of the 21st century, the "Forbidden City Benz" is about some crows that make a little noise, the crows fly around, around a piece of carrion, the black swan starts, but it's a bad omen of a big event.
