At the beginning of each year, two annual provincial and local meetings (people's congresses and political consultative meetings) will be held across the mainland, the Central News Agency reported today. Before the outbreak of a new outbreak of coronavirus pneumonia, the major local provinces and two conferences have been completed. Many Chinese people therefore question that Hubei and Wuhan are hiding the epidemic for the sake of stability during the meeting.
After the outbreak of the epidemic, public transport was blocked from all parts of the country, and the State Council approved the extension of the Spring Festival holiday to February 2. According to land media reports, Yunnan, the Standing Committee of the Sichuan Provincial People's Congress and the chairman's meeting of the CPPCC announced on February 27 and 28 that they would postpone the two sessions originally scheduled to be held in early February, with the specific time to be notified.
In addition, Jinan, Qingdao and Binzhou in Shandong Province, Zhengzhou, Pingdingshan and Anyang in Henan Province, Hefei in Anhui Province, Zhoushan in Zhejiang Province, Tongchuan and Shangluo in Shaanxi Province and other prefecture level cities have also postponed the two sessions. Suihua City, Heilongjiang Province, announced that counties (cities and districts) that did not hold the two sessions had been postponed to February 8.
China's state civil service bureau also announced yesterday that due to the need for epidemic prevention, the central authorities and their directly affiliated institutions will postpone the recruitment, public selection and public selection interview of civil servants in 2020, with specific arrangements to be notified separately.
It is noteworthy that the 3rd Session of the 13th National People's Congress and the 3rd Session of the 13th National Committee of the Chinese people's Political Consultative Conference are expected to open in Beijing on March 5 and March 3, the Central News Agency said. At present, the official hasn't announced whether it will be delayed due to the epidemic.
According to Apple Daily, Wuhan's pneumonia triggered a high-level power struggle among the Communist Party of China, and there was a heated debate about whether the two sessions were held in March.
"I have been conducting and deploying the epidemic prevention and control work in person," the report said Xi Jinping, who met with WHO director general Tan Desai, on April 4 (28), stressed that there seemed to be a refutation of rumors. Beijing has set up the "leading group of the CPC Central Committee to tackle the new type of coronavirus infection pneumonia epidemic", especially for the general secretary of the CPC Central Committee and the president of the State Council. Xi Jinping, Premier Li Keqiang of the State Council, has aroused many speculation. The report quoted the news agency as saying that Xi Li had a fierce conflict at the working conference on epidemic situation and had a heated debate on whether to hold the national two sessions at the beginning of March
。
The report said that in the third year of the new year (27 days), the new coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan appeared for more than 1 months. The premier of the State Council and the Central Committee of Li Keqiang, the leader of the leading group of the new type of coronavirus infection pneumonia, arrived in Wuhan on the first line of the epidemic. Li stressed that it was "entrusted by general secretary Xi Jinping", Li Li was well received from the battle. On the contrary, Xi was accused of retiring from the second line and evading the epidemic. Therefore, when Xi Jinping met with Tan De, director general of World Health, on August 28, he stressed that "we should resolutely implement the deployment of central decision-making" and "unify leadership, command and action".
Apple Daily quoted overseas Chinese media news agency as reporting that in the emergency meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee on the first day of the year (25th), in addition to the decision to seal the city of Wuhan, there were also discussions on the spread of the epidemic and whether the National People's Congress and CPPCC were held on March 3 and 5 as scheduled. According to the report, the Standing Committee was divided into two factions by the topic, and the Standing Committee member, who was mainly based on Xi Jinping, held that it should be held as scheduled, with the aim of "promoting" and "stabilizing" the people. But the Standing Committee of Jiang Hu group, which was dominated by Li Keqiang, believed that Wuhan pneumonia was a "national calamity", which would affect the economic figures of the mainland. The government work report should also be amended and proposed to be postponed. According to reports, the Standing Committee of the two groups argued fiercely, without a final conclusion.
Many analysts believe that the high level of the Communist Party of China is extremely confused in this anti epidemic action and has political considerations. Lin Baohua, a senior political and economic commentator, believes that the rapid increase of pneumonia cases in Wuhan and the different ways of local governments to fight the epidemic have led to the collapse of central totalitarianism.
