Prepare for the coronavirus. This is the huge headline on the front page of the Liberation Daily. This is the second time that the newspaper has published the new coronavirus in a critical position on the front page. The editorial of the newspaper explains that this is not to make a fuss, nor to sensationalize people, but because in the face of China's autocratic system, we must be extremely cautious, although Beijing authorities seem to be making information transparent this time Ming has made efforts, but is this enough to win the trust of the Chinese people and the international health organization?
"Liberation Daily" introduced the news that Chinese Premier Li Keqiang went to Wuhan to express solidarity, pointing out that the mayor of Wuhan disclosed in an interview with CCTV that the reason for blocking the news at the first time was that his superiors did not give instructions, obviously trying to shift the responsibility to the central government. In addition, the liberation daily received valuable testimony from a Chinese media reporter who stayed in a small city in Hubei Province, more than 100 kilometers away from Wuhan. The reporter introduced to the Liberation Daily that her family in Wuhan could not get enough food. The family tried to drive away from Wuhan but four roads were blocked. Other Wuhan people who travel in other places can't go home, and they are driven everywhere. Wuhan people and Hubei people have become street mice in China. She also condemned how Wuhan had concealed the epidemic from other locals after reporting it elsewhere. It criticized Xi Jinping, chairman of China, for not referring to Wuhan in his new year's greetings. Jackie Chan, a Hong Kong film star, claimed at the new year's party not to believe rumors. There was no virus at all. Finally, the Chinese journalist worried to the Liberation Daily that the Beijing government set up an emergency response team on Sunday, but the group was headed by officials from the Propaganda Department of the CPC Central Committee, which means they will continue to block the news.
The Liberation Daily then used a whole page to answer the frequently asked questions about the new crown epidemic in detail: the new crown virus is mainly transmitted through the respiratory tract, and most of the patients who died at present are over 60 years old and suffering from other diseases. How to treat patients with new coronavirus infection? At present, there is no other medicine besides the antipyretics. Doctors are trying to use the anti-virus drugs to treat AIDS and Ebola, but they are not sure about the efficacy.
The new crown virus triggered a global stock market panic, which is the front page headline of the financial newspaper echo. Echo pointed out that European stock prices have lost 2% and oil prices have fallen below $60 per barrel. The profits of 40 industrial indexes in France in January have become mainstream
。 The virus has posed a serious threat to many industries in China and has also raised concerns among French companies in China.
China's entertainment industry is the first to bear the brunt, with the vast majority of Chinese cinemas closed and many blockbusters delayed. Last year, China's box office revenue during the Spring Festival exceeded 1.5 billion yuan, compared with 18 million yuan this year
Secondly, the tourism industry has also suffered a huge setback. Since Monday, China's travel agencies have been banned from group travel and booking hotels for customers. Not only has China's domestic tourism industry been affected, but many Chinese have cancelled plans to travel to Southeast Asia or even to France, which will cause huge losses to major airlines and the luxury industry in France.
In addition, French enterprises in China are also facing serious challenges. Wuhan is the headquarters of French symbol Citroen and Renault automobile group in China. The head of the group told reporters that, of course, the top priority is the safety of employees in China. However, they are also preparing for the resumption of production. However, the key to the problem is that we do not know how long the policy of closing Wuhan will last.
French customs intercepts Chinese watches with excessive lead content
Finally, the Paris people's Daily reported that the French customs had seized a batch of Chinese watches with excessive lead content. It said that there were 28000 watches in total in this batch. The importer was located in aubervilliers, a suburb of Paris. After inspection, the lead content of the metal parts of these watches exceeded 40 to 70 times. According to French health experts, lead is very harmful to human body, and only a very small amount is likely to cause lead poisoning. According to reports, the goods monitoring business was ordered to pay a fine, the French customs have returned the goods to the shipper. Customs officials said that if it is forged goods, customs will destroy them according to law. However, although these low-quality products do not meet the quality indicators within the EU, they do not violate the law. However, he also said that French customs should destroy these inferior foods because they are likely to be transported to areas with poor sanitation, such as Africa.
In addition, the focus of the newspapers also includes the defeat of the far right party in the local elections in Italy, the split in the ruling party in the upcoming local elections in France in March, especially in the municipal elections in Paris, and the refusal of mathematician Villani to accept the request of President Marcon to insist on a fight with the candidates recommended by the ruling party.
