On Tuesday, when the eleven million metropolis of Wuhan
Signed a major health crisis, celebrated the highest ranking party
Province a gala dinner with wine, dance and singing. Those politicians who
Order respiratory masks and forbid public gatherings,
welcoming the Chinese New Year with a rousing feast, the appearance
the Coronavirus despite.
Events such as this gala are seen on social networks as
scandalously sorry. There you can feel the anger of young Chinese people at the
Local. In the press or on television there will be no
Finally, the media in China are under government control.
But on Wife or Wechat post mainly Millennial short videos from Wuhan,
the epicenter of the virus. There are overflowing emergency recordings in which:
Nurses sent desperate people home. Or doctors who
ask to be fired out of frustration.
On Saturday, again, the number of infected
Double night. According to official information, there are now almost 1.400
Cases of infection, over 40 deaths and around 240 patients in critical condition.
The Chinese New Year's Eve is usually attended by families in
all the country to extensive dinners and celebrations together. But now the
Media of hamster races in food and medicines. In social
Networks express young Chinese relief that their families
Meetings with relatives on New Year's Eve have been cancelled out of fear that
inject with the Coronavirus.
On the first day of "Year of the Rat" Beijing appeared
just ghostly: the streets are empty, temples and palaces for tourists
closed, public celebrations cancelled without exception. The few
Passengers on the street all wear respiratory masks
Yeah.
According to official statistics, Wuhan has already
Doctors infected with the Coronavirus, one of them died. The
Darkness was much higher, said a doctor of the South China Morning Post
Hong-Kong! Thus, the employees of the hospitals were not at first above
has been informed that the virus also spreads through human contact
will. They still lacked protective equipment and test kits.
In the Chinese state media such statements were made on Saturday
not reported. In the evening news on CCTV, comparable in importance
with the day show, the speaker with a stone face first mentioned
in the fifth post and only briefly the virus. Also the Volkszeitung,
the propaganda organ of the Communist Party, silent the health emergency
complete on their front page.
On Saturday evening President Xi Jinping addressed
the public. The strong leader of the People's Republic is always on
social stability and control, but this time his
Words no less alarming: China is with a "serious
The state news agency Xinhua quotes him as confronting the situation. The
new virus would spread "at increasing speed".
Recent national measures are radical: almost
all mainland China regions have the highest level of public alarm
Health issues, with which they implement quarantine measures at all times
can. Travel groups from abroad are banned from Monday, Beijing caps
all long-distance buses.
For the first time in the history of China, Hubei
de facto quarantined the entire province. The capital of Wuhan has since
in exceptional circumstances: from Sunday onwards private cars are prohibited on the roads which:
Subways don't run anymore. In social media users complain about empty shelves in the supermarket,
which only sell individual salad heads, for a converted period of five euros per
Piece
Yeah.
On Twitter, Qinqing Chen, the chief reporter of the
state Global Times, about the residents of Wuhan and the surrounding
Hubei Province: "Many of them have not understood until Thursday,
that the Coronavirus is a major health crisis, although the first
Infections have already occurred in mid-December."
The central government's information policy in Beijing is to blame for this.
On the one hand, it is rightly praised for
on the Sars epidemic of 2002 more transparent and open with international
Health organisations cooperate. Moreover, there is no doubt that the government takes the spread of the virus seriously: within ten days
currently in Wuhan a hospital with 1.000 beds built to cope with the storm
to be ready for patients. On Saturday the Health Commission decided
in Beijing, send 1.200 experts to Wuhan. 24 general hospitals become
converted exclusively for virus control.
At the same time, however, it appears that an authoritarian system
without free reporting on transparency issues reaches its limits. The
authorities have warned relatives of infected persons against speaking to the media; or
post online about the virus. The censors in Beijing hunt "sensitive
Contributions"in social media.
Already in early January some residents had Wuhans on the Internet
complained about the spread of lung disease. The defendants were
but then arrested for spreading rumors.
