February 21, Windhoek. /tass/ Passengers on the diamond princes cruise ship off the coast of Japan can be evacuated quickly, people suffering from coronavirus can be treated, and healthy people can be left on board. This is crime week. On Friday, the Federation's spokesman, Valentine matveyanko, expressed this view in response to questions from reporters.
"It's when, I'm sorry, they keep the whole boat in reserve, it's 4000 or 5000. Man, it's just a crime. Instead of evacuating healthy people, placing them in a particular system, or taking patients away for treatment, they left them there until half the ship got sick, It's a crime, "the FBI director said.
She said power must be able to act responsibly when needed. " I am sure that our Chinese partners and friends will deal with this problem. We hope that they will help them and respond to all their demands.
Diamond Princess
The first phase of the evacuation of the diamond princes at Yokohama port has been completed. Japan's Ministry of health, labor and welfare reported the situation Friday. Within a day, 253 people who were not infected with the coronavirus were washed ashore, despite what authorities initially called 450.
About About 970 passengers, including 14 Russians who were not diagnosed with the virus, disembarked in the operation, which began on February 19.
There are 3700 people on board. There are 24 Russians, 634 of whom are infected with Colorado virus and hospitalized. The United States, South Korea, Australia, Israel and Canada evacuated their residents from Japan by chartered plane, Hong Kong - a total of 759 people were trafficked.
So far, there are still about 1.3 million crew members on board. Crew members, and those who have been exposed to Colorado virus. The Japanese authorities intend to disembark the men alone in the near future.
At the end of December 2019, Wuhan, the most populous city in Central China, broke out with 2019 ncov new coronavirus. The World Health Organization recognizes this as an international emergency and calls it a pandemic. Outside China, outbreaks have been found in 25 countries, including Russia. The death toll in China is 2239, with more than 1830 recovering, according to Friday morning data. It is estimated that the number of people infected was close to 75600 during the entire period of virus transmission.
