In China, they have turned the tables: for the first time since the outbreak of the new Coronavirus, the authorities have not officially reported any new cases of infection in the country at the end of the week. On the other hand, the number of infected people who brought the virus back from abroad increased. The conditions are now stricter: those arriving at Beijing airport must be quarantined for 14-day periods, usually in hotels that have been specially converted for this purpose outside the city centre. 39 Such cases were reported only on Thursday, so many had never been counted in one day. A trend that has already led to the exclusion of many foreign-looking businesses and settlements in cities such as Beijing and Shanghai
Most of the returnees to China are not necessarily foreigners at all, often they are Chinese and want to return home. In view of the world's Corona situation, they see China as the safest place for them." Look at the situation in Europe, that would not have happened in China": So or similar, many contributions in China's social networks say that until recently clubs, playgrounds or restaurants have been open and well visited in cities such as Berlin or London, even though the number of infected there is increasing.
In China, it is particularly appalled at the indecisive way governments are handling regulations that have proved to be proven in Wuhan and other cities in China in recent weeks in the fight against the Coronavirus. China has done well in crisis management, according to popular opinion in the Chinese public.
This opinion is entirely in the interest of the Chinese government propaganda, which wants to convey to the people that the ruling Communist Party has managed everything, after the authorities had failed in the first weeks after the Corona outbreakYeah. Should the numbers of infections in China ever rise again, for example because more and more people return to their jobs, this can be attributed to the "re-imports" of the Coronavirus.
The mood in China today is actually quite different from that in February, when the whole country had shown solidarity with the late doctor Li Wenliang from Wuhan. Li had warned of the virus early and was therefore officially controlled in early January. Meanwhile, the government's rhetoric on the case is no longer defensive: the authorities apologized to the doctor's family on Friday. The case is supposed to be closed. The official message from the leadership is now: China has stopped the spread of the virus with a strong hand. The crisis is over. Go back to work. The virus isn't from China.
Many people in China are ready to believe that too.
The early warners in the virus crisis died like Li Wenliang, they were silenced or they were censored. Like the reports of Dr Ai Fen, the head of the emergency room at Wuhan Central Hospital, who also had to refute the initial Coronavirus suspicion under pressure from the authorities. In an interview of ten. In March she said: "If I had known what would happen, I would not have been interested in the measures. I would have fucking talked to everyone about it whenever I could."Also this interview was censored and deleted.
The leadership of the Communist Party is once again in control of public opinion. Little attention was paid to the fact that the former real estate mogul Ren Zhiqiang has been missing for over a week. Ren had dared to criticize Xi Jinping, head of state and party, in an essay at the end of February: "A naked clown who insisted on remaining emperorYeah.
"The people in the country have become much more patriotic during the Corona crisis," says a young Beijing woman. Is it because U.S. President Donald Trump is talking about the "China virus" that he's turning every Chinaman against him? The Beijing State Department is now vehemently spreading the rumor that the virus came from abroad. The blame is no longer sought in their own country or in the actions of those responsible, but outside. In addition, China's leadership now stands out in front of its citizens with medical aid and donations for the virus-infested Europe as competent and supportive. They also want to score points abroad.
Critical voices are scarcely heard in China today. Nevertheless: "People's doubts have increased due to the quarantine period, which means in the long term, will only be revealed," says a Chinese woman living in Germany. She wants to remain anonymous. Her whole family lives in Wuhan in quarantine