The picture that Beijing is showing of coronavirus infections is not reflecting reality, says the British Financial Times diary based on several interviews with doctors, nurses and hospital staff in Wuhan and Beijing. There are suspicions that not all new cases are being recorded, and there is one category that is being systematically left off the list of official cases: infected who have no symptoms.
In Hubei Province, where the city of Wuhan was the source of the pandemic, no more than one new case was reported per day for more than a week, which allowed the government to say that the crisis period ended and to decree a kind of return to normality: many people are already starting work again, albeit under enormous safety measures, compulsory distance at work stations and canteens, disinfections three times a day for jobs, for example.
And even small steps have already been reversed: if there was much talk of reopening cinemas (although a number of rooms represented only five% of the huge Chinese market in the low-central provinces and with old films), this Friday, ten days later, it was announced that cinemas closed them all again, Few spectators took advantage of the reopening: many fear that the situation is not yet controlled and do not want to expose themselves to risk.
Beijing has meanwhile announced a suspension of the entry of foreigners, saying that new cases of covid-19 are imported. This Friday, the US and Italy surpassed China in numbers of infected, according to Johns Hopkins University.
The Financial Times interviewed several doctors and specialists who are in China- most spoke in anonymity- and who say that the situation in Wuhan may be worse than the authorities are showinTwo nurses in the city spoke to the British daily, saying that there are "hidden" numbers, which despite meeting the criteria for confirmed cases, are not being included in the accounts.
"Health officials say the hospital is doing everything to control the counting of new cases," said one of the nurses. "It is extremely worrying to continue to advertise that there are no new cases. It is very risky, and it may mean that the sacrifices made in Wuhan and in the whole province of Hubei were worthless,"he complained.
In addition, the authorities are counting the cases of infected people who have no symptoms but do not include them in confirmed cases, said a health expert living in Beijing. The government agency that makes the guidelines on what should be considered a confirmed case, says the Financial Times, says that asymptomatic cases should not appear in total confirmed cases.
This distinction may be problematic because even if we do not know how or in what percentage, people without symptoms continue to be able to transmit the virus to others. And the local newspaper Caixin quoted experts saying that in Wuhan they were detected every day, "some, or a few dozen, of asymptomatic carriers", which means that it is not possible to "conclude that the transmission has stopped in Wuhan".
The Government maintains that these cases are not a problem because they are ordered to be quarantined during which it is observed whether they become symptomatic, and if they do, they are reclassified as confirmed cases.
Speaking in general, not in the Chinese case, the Director-General of the World Health Organisation (WHO), Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said on Wednesday that isolation measures "are the best way to stop transmission so that when they are lifted, there will be no coronavirus resurgence". He left an alert: "the last thing a country needs is to open schools and businesses and be forced to shut them down immediately after a resurgence.Yeah.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The only specialist to speak outside of anonymity in the Financial Times article is Cao Jingchao, one of the heads of the pharmacy wing of the internment of one of Wuhan's hospitals. "Some hospitals nearby transferred their patients to us," he reported. "But we were not informed whether they were new confirmed cases, whether they were patients who were still in those hospitals and, if that were the case, how long they had been hospitalized," he said, noting that the patient's medical records were not available.
On the 15th of March, they entered the hospital where about 100 patients with covid-19 work, some of which were from other hospitals. Four days later, more 20 were transferred. The local government announced the following zero cases. Cao Jingchao suspects that the transferred patients were actually new cases