Scientists are beginning to call the Wuhan virus, referring to the Chinese city where he was born. There, in a market, it is suspected that the microorganism jumped for the first time an animal to a person. Since it was discovered, the last day of 2019, has caused less 41 infections, has claimed two lives (second Thursday), and has already crossed two borders: first in Thailand and this Thursday, has reached Japan in the body of a man of 30 who had been in the Chinese town, but not in its market. This starts drawing as a possible scenario that researchers considered improbable: that the virus can be transmitted between humans.
The World Health Organization (WHO) works with networks of experts and researchers to coordinate surveillance, epidemiology, diagnosis, clinical care, treatments and routes of transmission of this virus family SARS. This also originated in China in 2002 caused the death of over 700 people. It was fatal in about 10% of cases, although it varied greatly between population groups: among younger there was almost no deaths, while among those over 65 reached 50% of those infected.
Although in principle "does not seem as worrisome as SARS" in the words of Volker Thiel virologist, scientists are working to unravel the complete sequence of the new microorganism to meet all its features and prepare a response. The international medical community knows that any time a new virus or mutation can cause a severe pandemic in the world, what they call "disease X". It does not seem to be the case: WHO has classified the risk as high expansion within the country, moderate in the region and globally low. "But we must be prepared if the outbreak spreads," said Thiel, a researcher at the University of Bern.
The first case left China on Monday was recorded in Thailand: a woman of 61 years remains stable and makes sure she was not on the market. Dozens of people in Singapore, South Korea and Hong Kong have fallen ill after visiting Wuhan are or have been under surveillance, although so far none has tested positive for the new coronavirus and their illnesses were caused by other pathogens. In the case of Japan, the patient spent four days in hospital and was discharged on Wednesday.
WHO said that "is not surprising" that there are cases outside China and that "there may be more in the future", so called for all countries to improve coordination and extreme measures of prevention.
Carrie Lam as detailed, Chief Executive of Hong Kong, a team of experts from the territory visited Wuhan to obtain first-hand information about the outbreak, "at the invitation of the National Health Commission". Its latest figures put the total number of positive to date at 41, five of them serious condition and 12 and high, with 119 people who are being conducted medical monitoring. The first fatality was a 61-year-old man died Saturday as a result of complications from infection. The second death is a man of 69 who had severe inflammation of the myocardium, renal failure and organ damage. Those affected have shown symptoms similar to those of pneumonia, fever and difficulty breathing. Wuhan local authorities say there have been no new positive native soil since Jan. 3.
The task now is twofold. On the one hand, on the ground, close the market where the outbreak occurred is intended to cut new transmissions. It is also necessary to trace other potential sources, which would be a possible cause for those infected who did not trod this scenario. Furthermore, laboratories, after sequencing the virus must study its chain of nucleotides 30,000 to compare with existing virus and know their differences and similarities. It is known to be a coronavirus family and the SARS-CoV MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) which since 2012 has caused 858 deaths, but not a mutation of these. Of the latter, carried by camels, there is a trickle of cases since, always transmitted from these animals to humans.
Epidemics are much more difficult to tackle if they can spread between people, something that still is not clear in this case. This, says Isabel Sola, a researcher at the National Center for Biotechnology of the CSIC, depends on mutations suffered by viruses, which are initially in animal reservoirs, often bat. "The coronavirus have an RNA sequence, which gives them a great genetic variability and change by mutations and recombinations that give them new properties. If a change occurs that gives you ability to infect an intermediate animal, the virus will jump. And the same goes between them and humans. But it is not enough that there is mutated, there must be contact, an opportunity to make that leap, "says Sola.
Recent doubts about the transmission mechanisms of the virus have fueled social concern. Even taking into account the proximity of the Chinese New Year celebration that will take place on 25 January. On the occasion of this national holiday is tradition that people return to the family home although many choose to travel outside the country-, in what amounts to the largest human migration in the world with over 3,000 million journeys. In 2002, the Chinese government has already decided to reduce one week vacation just one day, to restrict the movements and reduce the chances of spreading SARS.
Experts suggest that the authorities in the region have learned the lesson, so then developed protocols have already begun to be implemented. While in 2002 the reaction of the Chinese government was hiding the epidemic, this time they have reacted quickly, launching a research team and implementing measures insulation from the outset.
The preparations for the exodus of next week has already begun. Chinese hospitals accumulate material protection and many have raised isolation chambers. Countries like Thailand, which during this festival usually receive about 800,000 tourists Chinese-, Indonesia, Australia, Malaysia and Singapore, all popular destinations, have set up their own security measures. These include the establishment of controls at all airports with connections to Chinese cities and installation of scanners terms for monitoring the temperature of travelers.