Geneva, 23 January. /tass/ The World Health Organization (who) did not declare China's new pneumonia an international emergency, 2019 ncov caused by corona. Who director general teros Adana gebreysu announced this Thursday at a two-day meeting of the emergency private sector Committee in Geneva.
Private sector arrangements help to draw international attention to the outbreak of the disease and help to finance the fight against it. It mobilizes the international community to address health-related issues.
"I will not declare a state of emergency of international concern today," said guglieus, explaining that it is not necessary at this time. "This is an emergency in China, but it has not yet become a world health emergency, although it may become one," he said He pointed out that the outbreak of new pneumonia poses a very high risk to China and to the region and the world. "
Who knows that 2019 ncov cases occur from person to person, but it seems to be limited to family groups and health workers engaged in treatment. "HIV / AIDS
About Gebreyessus pointed out that there is no evidence that coronavirus has been transferred from one person to another outside China.
The head of who noted that the organization currently does not recommend any broader restrictions on "travel and trade" with China. However, the committee recommends screening at airports as part of anti-virus measures. Who believes that all countries should take steps, including the detection of new forms of pneumonia in treatment facilities. "To protect ourselves and others, there are a few simple things to do - wash your hands, cover your mouth and sneeze when covering your nose," the general manager reminded
Many things are not clear
However, he did not hide, for the new pneumonia, there are many things are not clear In particular, it is still unclear about the source of coronavirus and the ease of its spread. Who is working with partners in China and other countries in the region to fill these gaps as soon as possible. "
The general manager believes that new cases may be found in other parts of China and other countries. " He recalled that the Chinese authorities had taken what it considered appropriate measures to curb the spread of the "Russian royal family" in cities such as Wuhan
About The president of who thanked the Chinese government for its cooperation and transparency, and recalled that, The gene sequence of the new Colorado virus was quickly determined, and Beijing quickly shared this information with who and the international community.
Previously, the WHO situation committee did not recommend the announcement of the private sector system. " The question is whether this emergency is an emergency of international concern. Our proposal to the director general of who - this is not the time yet "- his chairman, Didier ussen, said in a briefing in Geneva on the committee's two-day meeting.
The private sector Commission recommended that China provide more information on reducing the risk of Colorado virus transmission and make further efforts to identify new cases. China's diseases continue to work with who to provide information on all cases and continue screening at airports.
News Revised): 22:53 - Citations expanded and details added in ISIC.
