The number of infections and deaths caused by lung disease from China has risen again. As reported by the Chinese health authority, the total number of deaths by 38 increased to now 170.
The number of confirmed patients increased to 7711 cases in China. After Tibet also reported the first disease with the new Coronavirus, infections have now been detected in all regions and provinces of China. The first cases occurred at the end of December in the central Chinese city of Wuhan.
France also reported another infection. The fifth disease in the country is now the daughter of an 80-year-old Chinese tourist who is also ill, the French Ministry of Health reported. The condition of the 80-year-old was serious, the man continued to be treated in a Paris hospital. In addition, the condition of another infected 30-year-old who has been treated since the end of last week has worsened. Currently, around 50-year-old infections with the corona virus have been confirmed outside China.
The first four patients in Germany were, according to the Chief Medical Officer Clemens Wendtner of the Munich clinic Schwabing, symptomless and in good clinical condition on Wednesday.
Many states, including Germany, continue to work to get their citizens out of the particularly affected city of Wuhan in Central China. In Japan the second charter machine with 210 compatriots from Wuhan returned on Thursday. The day before, 206 Japanese had already been detained. According to previous findings, none of them have so far been positive for the new agent. The United States had also flown out on Wednesday around 200.
When exactly does a Federal Army plane start to pick up Germans from Wuhan, it was still unclear on Thursday
Yeah. No infections or suspected cases have been detected so far among the 90-German and family members living in the region around the capital of Wuhan. The Federal Army's plane is to land in Frankfurt. The passengers are to be quarantined there first. According to the Federal Ministry of Health, in consultation with the Hessian authorities, it was decided to place returnees centrally during the 14-day incubation period.
The head of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and Emergency Chief Michael Ryan showed concern on Wednesday about the "rapid spread" of lung disease. However, they were very impressed by the Chinese activities.
"The Chinese behavior during the Sars outbreak and the Chinese behavior today"absolutely no comparison,"said Ryan, who was already involved during the Sars outbreak 2003. The fact that so far there have only been a few dozen cases abroad is due to the stringent measures taken by China.
On the question of whether the WHO recommends the departure of foreigners, Tedros said: "The decision is, of course, up to each country itself. But they must be well prepared if the virus is to be introduced in this way."
In view of the rapid spread of the new Coronavirus, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has again convened the Emergency Committee for Thursday.
After British Airways and Lufthansa, more and more airlines are cancelling their flights to China. The Spanish airline Iberia will also cancel all connections to and from China as of Friday. The airline normally offers three flights a week between Madrid and Shanghai.
China's CFA football association announced on Thursday that it would postpone the country's football season for the time being. This is to protect the health of fans and players. A new start date was not mentioned at first
Yeah.
According to the US Federal Reserve, Chinese economic growth is expected to be somewhat lower due to the new Coronavirus. It was too early to predict the effects accurately, but a "certain disruption" of economic life in the short term was very likely, said Federal Reserve Chief Jerome Powell on Wednesday before journalists. Weaker growth in China, the second largest economy in the world, would also be noticeable in the US, but only very limited, Powell said. Current knowledge suggests that China and its neighbours would be particularly affected. (dpa)
