Beijing, February 11. /tass/ Some Chinese companies, including manufacturers of cars, children's products and medicines, have begun to make medical masks, China's demand for pneumonia caused by a new type of coronavirus. China Daily reported on Tuesday.
According to the publication, these companies either buy new production lines or temporarily change their production lines that meet the requirements. Therefore, located in the administrative center of Heilongjiang Province in Harbin Harbin Pharmaceutical (also known as Hayao) acquired two N95 mask production lines. Production is expected to start next Monday with 20-30000 units. One big one a day.
SGMW carmaker - General Motors, SAIC and Liuzhou Wuling motors in Liuzhou, southern China - will transform 12 of its own production lines in southern China In the workshop of 2000 square meters Square meter Published in According to the magazine, the daily output may reach 1.7 million tons, which will greatly alleviate the shortage of medical supplies in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. Where is the factory located
About
Manufacturers of children's diapers in eastern Fujian Province will also revamp their production lines to make face masks, which will be produced by mid February. More than 1 million units of products per day.
By February 14, the production line will be able to provide about 1.4 million masks a day, and by the end of March, that number could reach 3.5 million. " - quoted Lin Yanting, deputy general manager of the company. He pointed out that once China's pneumonia epidemic began to decline, enterprises may face the problem of excess capacity, Because the redesigned production line cannot be restored to its original state. " Nevertheless, we believe that every mask we produce can save another person. "
At the end of December 2019, Chinese authorities recorded the outbreak of 2019 ncov pneumonia virus in Wuhan. In addition to China, the disease has been found in 24 countries, including Russia. The World Health Organization recognizes that the outbreak of this disease is an international emergency, known as a multiple epidemic. Chinese authorities confirmed more than 42600 deaths In the new cases of coronavirus infection, 1016 people died and nearly 4000 people were treated. Human beings.
