Tass, March 10. As of March 9, there were only 19 newly confirmed cases of covid-19 in China, 17 of which occurred in Hubei Province. Two of the newly confirmed cases were shipped from abroad, and one was registered in Beijing, Today, TASS announced at the Chinese Consulate General in Yekaterinburg.
A few weeks later, China took resolute and strict measures to control the spread of the disease, realizing the following efforts: on March 6, the first time since January 20, the number of newly confirmed cases was covid-19 The country's figure has fallen to double digits, as mentioned in the comments of the diplomatic corps.
At the consulate general, Of the 80000 people, 80000 are women, according to the World Health Organization (who) director general, tederos Adana gebreysus, at a regular press conference in corona velos. More than 70% of the patients registered with covid-19 in China have recovered and have been discharged. " China is one of the countries with the largest number of infected people and is currently controlling the epidemic in its territory. About
The Consulate General noted that the measures taken by China in the past few weeks have only begun to produce positive results after collective action. We will coordinate all-round efforts to promote action by all sectors of the Chinese government and all sectors of society.
In order to combat covid-19, China is taking the most comprehensive, strict and thorough prevention and control measures. The world has seen the determination of the Chinese government, "The unity of the Chinese people and the strength of the Chinese system", cited by Zhang Jun, permanent representative of China to the United Nations, in his speech at a press conference held at the Consulate General on the work of the UN Security Council.
"China is committed to controlling and preventing the new coronary pneumonia epidemic, while resuming work and production. The report states that every effort is being made to reduce the economic impact of the epidemic through well planned policy measures and credible practical action. "
The diplomatic mission reviewed the prediction of Christina Georgieva, President of the International Monetary Fund, that China's economy will recover in the second quarter, In addition, the committee heard from Steven S., a senior researcher at Yale University. Rocha said that with the gradual control of the epidemic, China's economy is expected to have a huge backlas。 "I'm optimistic about the long-term prospects for China's economy," Chinese diplomats quoted him as saying.
"China is doing its best to control the epidemic, while paying close attention to the situation in other parts of the world. China exchanges experience with relevant countries and international organizations and provides them with necessary assistance.
It also noted that, In response to the call of the World Health Organization "Cooperative prevention and control of covid-19". The Consulate General reported that the contribution was particularly related to helping small and medium-sized countries with weak health systems to strengthen their protection of the epidemic.
Diplomats also said that Zhou Shun, a spokesman for the Chinese foreign ministry, said on September 9 that China provided 1. 5% to the Republic of Korea One million medical masks and other medical supplies, the first batch of humanitarian aid will arrive soon. "
Consulate General of the people's Republic of China in Yekaterinburg
In 2009, the Consulate General of the people's Republic of China was officially established in Yekaterinburg. Its jurisdiction includes Sverdlovsk, Chelyabinsk, TNM, Omsk, Novosibirsk and Krasnoyarsk border areaAbout China is Sverdlovsk's largest foreign economic partner.
From February 6, 2020, the Ministry of foreign affairs is under the leadership of consul general Cui Shaochun. At the first formal meeting, he thanked uralsev for his assistance in the fight against Colorado virus in China. He also pointed out that at the beginning of the year, the Consulate General of Russia China Science and technology innovation cooperation was willing to work hard with the Russian side, In order to find new breakthrough points to improve the level of interregional cooperation and enrich its content. "
Alexander Sergeyev, President of the Russian Academy of Sciences, introduced examples of such cooperation to TASS in early February. This is an antiviral drug "triazavirin" provided by Russia to China, which is produced in the new Uralsk city of Sverdlovsk state. If the drug is successfully tested for the treatment of coronavirus, the factory is ready to work all day and increase production