The specialist who led the World Health Organisation (WHO) team sent to China this Tuesday said that the world is "simply not ready" to tackle the new coronavirus epidemic. Bruce Aylward, an emergency Canadian doctor, welcomed Beijing's work to contain the disease.
"We must be ready to manage this on a large scale, and this must be done quickly," but the world "simply is not ready," said Bruce Aylward at a press conference in Geneva, referring to the possibility of a new coronavirus pandemic, Covid-19.
"We are not ready as we should be," both from a psychological and a material point of view, he said.
The mission of the WHO visited several Chinese cities and provinces, including Wuhan, birthplace of the coronavirus epidemic (Covid-19) to study its evolution and effects.
"The unanimous assessment of the team is that they [the Chinese] have changed the course of this epidemic... It is impressive,"said Bruce Aylward, a veteran in the fight against the Ebola epidemic. "If I have Covid-19, I want to be treated in China," he added, for example, highlighting the efforts of that country to equip hospitals and build new ones.
"China knows how to keep people with coronavirus alive," he said, urging the rest of the international community to be more prepared.
The new coronavirus epidemic reached its peak in China between 23 January and 2nd February, decreasing the daily number of new cases since then, according to the WHO. In China, the virus infected about 77.000 people, of whom 2600 died.
The interim assessment of the Covid-19 coronavirus epidemic is of 2707 dead and about 80.300 infected persons, according to data reported until this Tuesday by about thirty countrieYeah.
In addition to 2665 deaths in China, where the outbreak began at the end of the year, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, South Korea, Italy, Japan, the Philippines, France and Taiwan.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The World Health Organisation declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international emergency, and warned of a possible pandemic, following a sudden increase in cases in Italy, South Korea and Iran in recent days.
In Portugal, there have already been 15 suspicious cases, which have resulted in negative results after analysis, and a man is still being evaluated, hospitalized this Tuesday in Porto.
The only known case of a Portuguese infected by the new virus is a crewman on a cruise ship who is hospitalized in Japan