As fears of coronavirus contagion increase in Europe, several organisations and companies linked to the tourism, trade and transport sectors recall that Chinese travellers are key to these activities on European territory.
In a manifesto released this Monday, dozens of associations and entities, such as the Amadeus travel reserve management platform, the association representing the airlines Airlines for Europe, the European Tourism Association, the European Cycling Federation or the International Road Tourism Union, came to "offer solidarity and support to China and the Chinese people" at this time "particularly challenging".
Recalling the importance of the relationship between Europe and China for various sectors such as higher education, trade, transport and hospitality, the signatories to the manifesto say that we must ensure that, at this difficult time, Chinese visitors are welcomed and respected in Europe.
Whether visas are issued easily, or attractive tourist offers are made available, "the public and private sectors must work together to ensure a strong recovery" from the tourist movement of Chinese citizens in Europe.
Last week, a New York Times article reported how Beijing's quarantine measures on Chinese citizens are affecting businesses in tourist destinations in France, Germany and England.
In Paris (where, last week, an 80-year-old Chinese tourist was hospitalized and died in what was the first coronavirus death in Europe), the newspaper reported the impact it already feels on one of the most iconic trading points in the French capital, the Lafayette Galleries.
In this commercial space, where the luxury brands most sought after by Chinese tourists are concentrated, the fall of visitors has been a reality in recent weekYeah.
"Public health is the main concern of governments and we recognise the guidelines of the World Health Organisation," but any "travel restrictions that go beyond these recommendations can cause unnecessary alarm, disruption and unnecessary economic impact in the various sectors [of activity], underlines the manifesto released this Monday, entitled "European tourism calls for solidarity and support for China".
The signatories, representing sectors such as hot springs, festivals, catering and hotels, spirit drinks or rural tourism, among others, are therefore calling for recognising the economic and social dimension of the coronavirus crisis and adopting a cross-cutting strategic plan for dealing with the situation and promoting the recovery of tourist movements.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
If it is too early to measure the impact of Chinese tourists falling in Europe, there are already estimates of how much the crisis could cost Asian economies, where countries like Japan and South Korea have seen alert levels rise with increased confirmed cases of infection.
According to an analysis of the Dutch bank ING, the fall in tourist revenues in the Asian continent, where 80% tourism is intra-regional, may this year result in an economic loss between 105 and 115 billion dollars (96 billion and 106 billion euros).
The analysis reflects, for example, the fact that Chinese tourists are giving up travelling to other destinations on the continent, e.g. Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos, but also the possibility of South Koreans, from which most Asian citizens visiting China come, could significantly restrict travel