The Ministry of Public Health of Cuba (MINSAP) informed the people that as part of the protective measures at national level to prevent at what it means for any country in the world the expansion of the coronavirus in the nation have isolated some people Over the past 14 days they were in China and other countries with presence of the virus.
According to Dr. Francisco Duran, National Director of Epidemiology at the Ministry of Public Health, these people had symptoms similar to those of the coronavirus, and therefore were admitted to the IPK and "some other hospital" of the island, however it has not been confirmed that none have the disease, "so we can say that in Cuba we have no confirmed case until now," said the specialist.
Duran also said that so far, measures to prevent the disease include personal protection because it is a respiratory disease transmission for which there is still no effective treatment.

So far "symptomatic treatment" applies, explained the specialist as fever and cough are treated, but since yesterday morning circulating an article where good results from a combination of an antiviral with an antiretroviral are argued, but that treatment it is undergoing testing in patients.
After transmitting Monday interview on national news where the official MINSAP offered these statements, which transmit calm to the population amid the global alert issued by the World Health Organization, a wave of rumors has been generated Internet with the aim of fomenting confusion.
It is not the first rumor to respect. Given the confusion caused by the appearance on social networks of information that expresses the existence of a case of coronavirus in Santa Clara County, it is clear that this is a man who is a carrier of the virus in that county in California, USA United.
The confusion is given because in the capital of the province of Villa Clara there is also a deal with the county name, which generated the false alarm. But to date, no cases of coronavirus in Cuba.
PREVENTIVE MEASURES OF CUBA
The measure to isolate people with symptoms similar to those of the disease and from countries which have been detected coronavirus is part of the strategy outlined by the Cuban government to prevent the entry of this disease to Cuba.
On 28 January, the Minister of Health, Dr. joseangel Portal Miranda and the head of the National Staff of the Civil Defense, Major General Ramon Pardo Guerra, presided over a working meeting with various agencies of the Central Administration of the State analyze the action plan the country before the new contingency.
Recently, the Council of Ministers, held last Wednesday, approved a Plan for the Prevention and Control also called "pneumonia Wuhan" Chinese city where the first cases were reported with this disease, which is transmitted, in essence, through saliva droplets that the carrier virus emits the coughing or sneezing.
Given this reality and the fact that to date there is still no effective medication to control symptoms and contagion person to disease, our country, so far not reported any cases of the deadly virus, it is proposed, as explained by the Ministry of Public health, contain minimal risk of introduction and spread of the coronavirus in the country and minimize the negative effects of an epidemic on the health of the population and its impact on economic-social sphere.
To this end, it is planned to protect the border of the country, on the basis of the regulations of international sanitary control force at the entry points to contain the arrival of ill travelers through airports, ports and marinas, as well as ensuring strict compliance surveillance measures and control over those arriving, from areas with transmission after arrival.
Also, it has been determined that these measures have to be implemented not only for public health but also by other agencies of the Central Administration of the State, for which it has set up a temporary working group to address the prevention and preparedness for the new coronavirus.
Similarly, it has strengthened epidemiological surveillance and organization of medical surveillance at different levels of the Cuban system of health care in all health care units where it can present a case with suspected virus.
It has also prepared a training process to the entire public health staff for diagnosis and care in our country, as long as there have been indications for the protection of the Cuban internationalists staff performing missions in other countries.