Global sports authorities look the outbreak of the new coronavirus Wuhan with concern, and are faced with the decision whether or not to suspend the event to avoid large crowds of public and minimize the risk of contagion. Already suspended national and international competitions are planned in China this spring, as the World Athletics Championships March Nanking. Formula 1, Grand Prix, the Chinese rescheduled for April 19 in Shanghai, decide what to do with the announcement of the sports committee of the city of not hosting sporting events until further notice. Organizers of the great sporting event of the year, the Tokyo Olympic Games (from July 24 to August 9) nervously watching the outbreak. Several qualifying competitions have moved outside China.
"I am very concerned about the spread of the coronavirus. You can slow the atmosphere and momentum for the organization of the Games. I hope this is resolved soon," insured has Toshiro Muto, head of the organizing committee of Tokyo 2020, at a meeting routine coordination in the spread of the virus outbreak was addressed in the Chinese city of Wuhan within six months of the Olympic and Paralympic Games which will host the Japanese capital. On Monday, the Anti-Doping Agency Chinese (Chinada) informed the International Olympic Committee (IOC) has suspended doping controls on their athletes as a result of the state of health emergency declared in the country by the World Health Organization (WHO). The measure aims to avoid risky contacts.
The coronavirus has claimed in the past 24 hours 70 more lives in China and there are already 562 deaths, according to official figures released early Thursday. The number of infected more than 27,000, nearly 3,000 more than the previous day. 2019-nCoV coronavirus can cause pneumonia with symptoms such as high fever, dry cough, headache and shortness of breath. Its average incubation period is three to seven days, with a maximum of 14. WHO has declared an international emergency outbreak.
So far, Tokyo 2020 organizers had only made general statements about their willingness to take "any necessary measures" to "any incidence of infectious diseases", without referring specifically to the coronavirus. Responsible for the Japanese Ministry of Health, the organization of the Olympic Games and other competent authorities are scheduled to meet later this week to discuss the situation and discuss possible preventive measures in the face of the great sporting event. The International Olympic Committee and other bodies of the qualifying tournaments for have decided games change the venue of several pre-Olympic: this has happened to some women's basketball (Foshan, China, to Belgrade, Serbia), boxing (Qualifier Asia and Oceania, which have changed Wuhan for Amman, Jordan) or women's football (one four-team qualifying, China, Australia, Taiwan and Thailand moved from Wuhan to Australia).
Grand Prix Formula 1 Shanghai risks not being able to be held mid next April, after the city announced the suspension of all sporting events. In a statement, the Sports Federation said the city suspended "until the end of the epidemic," all sporting events, "performances, forums, foreign exchanges and other activities". The decision of the authorities of the metropolis comes at a time when the press speculates on the possible cancellation or delay of the race. According to media reports, the authorities of Formula 1 will meet on Wednesday to decide whether the event scheduled for the weekend of the 17 to April 19, goes ahead or not.
The International Automobile Federation and recently announced the suspension of the race of Formula E (electric cars competition organized by the International Automobile Federation). He was scheduled for March 21 in the island city of Sanya, in southern China. In the statement, published on Sunday, the organization said it took the decision "to ensure the health and safety of staff traveling, participants of the championship and spectators, which remain vital."
Chinese Super League football has been affected by the decision to postpone the meetings of all competitions until further notice. The International Tennis Federation changed the seat of a tournament, the Oceania group of the Fed Cup Asia (Dongguan, near Hong Kong, Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan), before finally postpone it. World Cup Alpine skiing, scheduled for next week in Yanqing, Beijing to the north week, has also been canceled.