the arrival of the coronavirus
Train emergency personnel and equip themselves with tools for rapid diagnosis of patients who can enter the coronavirus Wuhan. So large hospitals Spaniards before the outbreak stalking China and has reached nine other countries on board international flights are prepared. Not for now the case of Spain: the Ministry of Health reported Friday that two suspected cases under study, people with respiratory ailments recently arrived in Wuhan, have tested negative to the tests. But late in the evening the Basque Country reported that they had a patient with some suspicious symptoms he was under surveillance and had recently visited Wuhan.
"We are following with great interest all, but quietly. It is highly unlikely that the new virus becomes a major problem in Spain, "notes Santiago Moreno, head of the infectious diseases service Ramón y Cajal Hospital (Madrid). This position coincides with that held by the ministry. "People have to have a level of perceived very low risk," said Fernando Simon, director of the Center for Coordination and Emergency Health Alerts in the presentation of the measures agreed by Health and autonomous regions.
Three ideas are the most repeated by experts consulted by this newspaper. The first is that what is known about the virus is still little. "We do not know the rate of transmissibility, which tells us how many people spread each case. Nor do we know if there are asymptomatic or very mild symptoms cases, "explains Jesús Rodríguez Bathroom, chief of the infectious diseases service of the Virgen Macarena (Sevilla) hospital.
The second is that, with the available data, the Wuhan seems less virulent than the other coronavirus that caused epidemic outbreaks since 2002. "Mortality is less than 5%, while SARS and MERS were much higher [10% and 35%, respectively]," says Juan Carlos Galan, spokesman for the Spanish Society of Infectious Diseases and Microbiology (SEIMC). In addition, "although it has been demonstrated transmission from person to person, does not seem too high, lower than in the SARS" says Magda Campins, head of Preventive Medicine of the Vall d'Hebron (Barcelona) hospital.
As a third important idea, experts conclude that, until the investigations progress and international agencies establish more precise recommendations, it is advisable to "adopt here the necessary steps to be prepared if a case goes," said José Miguel Cisneros, head of service infectious diseases of the Hospital Virgen de Rocio. "And rest assured, because our public health system and our hospitals are amply prepared to deal with an episode like this," he adds.
The first measures taken by hospitals are to "prepare protocols for emergency personnel, which is the gateway to the hospital," says Campins. "The goal is to determine if the patient has symptoms consistent with the virus and if you have recently traveled to Wuhan" he adds. If two events coincide, "the patient should be admitted in isolation and medical personnel take precautionary measures usual until you discard or confirm that the disease is caused by the virus," says Rodríguez bathroom. These measures go through "hand protection and respiratory barriers, such as masks high degree of protection in case there airborne" he adds.
The instructions are finalizing the Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities establish that samples of all suspected patients will be sent to the National Microbiology Center (CNM), which will be the reference and have the results in about a day. But large hospitals have a technology called PCR, which allows advancing the diagnosis in a few hours. "We are acquiring specific kits to genetically identify the virus with PCR Wuhan," says Campins. "We have ordered the purchase and we will arrive on Monday," they explained from the Ramón y Cajal.
Fernando Simon said on Friday that if a positive case is detected, it will track contact, but the virus does not have "a lot of transmissibility". On a flight, for example, the evolution of the two passengers seated beside it would follow. The aim is that the public network is the sensitivity to detect cases without blocking the healthcare system. Health does not arise for now take exceptional measures at airports, since there are no direct flights from Wuhan and is a measure "that has not proved useful," said Simon. He explained that it is very common for passengers coming from long flights suffer respiratory symptoms, more in winter, so apply controls on arrivals "would not provide a benefit enough."
Health concludes that "it is not very likely, but it can happen," the virus reaches Spain. "So we are ready to act," said Simon, who recalled that the most important thing in these outbreaks are performances origin and considers that quarantines in China reduce risk.