Wuhan coronavirus has claimed its first fatality outside China, the Philippines, while in China the number of cured (331), according to official figures, exceeds that of deaths (304).
2019-nCoV coronavirus can cause pneumonia with symptoms such as high fever, dry cough, headache and shortness of breath. Its average incubation period is three to seven days, with a maximum of 14 Chinese scientists have confirmed that, unlike SARS, it is possible contagion during incubation. WHO has declared an international emergency outbreak.
The Philippines has reported the first death outside China coronavirus. He is a man of 44 years of Chinese nationality who died Saturday. It was the companion of a 38 year-old also infected, who had come to the archipelago from Wuhan after a stopover in Hong Kong.
The announcement, confirmed by the World Health Organization (WHO), comes after hours of the Philippines has issued a temporary ban on entry to the country for travelers who have passed through mainland China, Hong Kong or Macao for the last fourteen days the maximum incubation time of the virus.
The pathogen has already reached almost thirty countries almost everyone, where 150 cases have been detected. Only South America and Africa remain free of infection.
In the country of origin of the epidemic, the death toll continues to climb. The dead are already 304, according to data from provincial health commissions, although the figure is already beginning to surpass it recovered 331 patients have already been discharged.
14,411 are infected, while another 19,544 suspected cases. In total remains under observation to 137,594 people who have been in contact with the sick.
Chinese authorities have ordered today road closures and restrictions of movement in the city of Wenzhou (nine million), the first city in which this measure outside Hubei Province, the epicenter of the epidemic coronavirus is taken. It is recommended that citizens remain in their homes and leave only if an emergency arises. In addition, the city can only leave a member of the family every two days, whenever a case of necessity.
While continuing the spread of the coronavirus, the Chinese government has confirmed an outbreak of H5N1 avian influenza on a farm in Hunan Province, bordering Hubei, Wuhan is located. In this farm, in the rural outskirts of the city of Shaoyang, they were killed 4,500 of its 8,000 chickens due to illness. Authorities have culled nearly 18,000 poultry.
So far the outbreak has not infected anyone. H5N1 avian influenza is a serious respiratory disease for birds. Transmission to humans often occurs among people who have had much contact with these animals for a long time. Although the spread between people is possible, it is unusual.
The mortality rate of avian flu is very high, exceeding 50%, over 11% of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 800 people worldwide in 2003, or the new coronavirus, which until the moment has about 2%.