Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte has confirmed this Thursday the first two cases of coronavirus Wuhan in Italy. It is two Chinese tourists who arrived already infected with the transalpine country "few days ago" and are admitted to isolation from the afternoon of Wednesday in the Roman Spallanzani hospital specializing in infectious diseases. The director of the center, Giuseppe Ippolito, explained that patients are in good condition and arrived in Rome after being infected with the virus elsewhere. He also noted that at present there are no risks for the population. In a press conference tonight, Conte has also announced that Italy also shut down air traffic with China as a preventive measure. It is the first European country to take this decision.
Wednesday afternoon, a special ambulance picked up the two tourists who had symptoms compatible with the coronavirus in your accommodation, centrally located hotel with 200 rooms, and took them to the hospital in order to conduct the relevant tests. When the results were known, also they moved on a bus to a group of tourists from China, which had arrived in Italy with the tour operator himself the infected partner, but had no symptoms of the disease. The Prime Minister also announced that additional measures were studying people who had been in contact with patients. Conte also announced an extraordinary Council of Ministers for Friday, he said the situation is "under control" and sent a message of calm. "The Spallanzani is the bible of this sector [the infectious diseases] and there is no reason to create panic and social unrest," he said.
Health Minister, Roberto Speranza said that health managers try to trace the route that have been done in Italy infected tourists. "The occurrence of coronavirus in Italy is a fairly normal occurrence if we think of statistics as there are already ten cases in Europe. Our scientists have been saying for some time. The situation is serious, but do not fall into alarmism, "he added.
Thursday was a tense day in Italy. Throughout the day, 6,000 passengers have been blocked on board a cruise in the Roman port of Civitavecchia in which there was a couple who had symptoms compatible with the coronavirus. A team of doctors moved to the ship from Rome for analysis to the two sick passengers. Late in the afternoon the health authorities confirmed the negative results of the analyzes, they said that it was "a simple flu" and gave the green light to the landing of the passage.
Tonight the World Health Organization (WHO) has decided to declare the international emergency outbreak of this new disease. The decision comes 30 days after the first alert for new launched disease by China on 31 December and after the number of people affected by the pathogen has been multiplied by 13 in the last week to over 9,000 confirmed cases and reach 213 dead. Of these, more than 80 patients have been diagnosed in 19 countries outside China. Finland, India, Italy itself and the Philippines have been the last to join the list.