The number of people affected by coronavirus Wuhan in China registered its biggest jump in 24 hours so far. Those killed by the pathogen and add 259 and infected already exceed 11,000, according to official figures released Saturday. 2019-nCoV coronavirus can cause pneumonia with symptoms such as high fever, dry cough, headache and shortness of breath. Its average incubation period is three to seven days, with a maximum of 14 Chinese scientists have confirmed that, unlike SARS, it is possible contagion during incubation. WHO has declared an international emergency outbreak.
The infected by the coronavirus 2019-nCoV throughout the Chinese territory on Saturday added 11,791 cases, 2,102 more than on Friday. The death toll has risen to 46 people, of whom 45 were residents of Hubei province which is Wuhan and that is the focus of the epidemic.
In total, Hubei has already accumulated 192 deaths since the outbreak began and, with 7,153 infected, continues as the key area of ​​the epidemic. But the disease has already been clearly expanded for the rest of the country: 40% of confirmed cases and are located in other provinces.
The number of suspected cases nationwide and slashing 18,000. In total, China kept under observation for more than 118,000 people, the sum of possible infected and people who have been in contact with them. So far they have managed to recover 245 patients.
In the rest of the world, they have already detected more than 150 cases in 26 countries, including Spain, where on Friday confirmed the first positive in La Gomera. Outside China, Thailand is the country with the highest number of infections, 19 so far.
The US government, which on Friday declared a public health emergency, temporarily prohibit entry to the country to foreigners who have been in China in the past two weeks, as part of its measures to prevent infection by the coronavirus.
Americans returning from Hubei will have to undergo a fourteen-day quarantine in a specially enabled, as he has declared the Health Secretary Alex Azar. He did not admit to any foreigner who is not a relative of a US citizen or permanent resident and who has been in China in the last 14 days, the maximum incubation time.
Qantas has joined Saturday the suspension of flights to China had already announced other international companies. The Australian flag carrier will temporarily cancel its connections to the country from 9 February to 29 March.
US companies will also stop flying soon to the second economy of the world.
Large companies like Toyota, IKEA, Starbucks, Tesla, McDonald's and the technology giant Foxconn decided to temporarily suspend production or close its stores in China, reports AFP.
An aircraft of the German Air Force has taken off this Saturday in Wuhan with about a hundred citizens of that nationality who had been trapped in the focus of infection after that on 23 entered into force quarantine blocking about 46 million people in Hubei.
As has the German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas, he indicated the plane had carried a cargo of 10,000 Wuhan protective suits, requested by the Chinese government to meet the needs of hospitals overwhelmed the city.
German repatriates will upon arrival a medical examination and, if no symptoms, remain in quarantine for 14 days at a military facility in the town of Germersheim.
So far, about a dozen countries, including Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan and South Korea have evacuated their citizens from Wuhan.