Iberia temporarily canceled its flights to Shanghai by the crisis of the coronavirus. The Spanish company, which belongs to the IAG group, took a few days pondering the possibility of suspending the connection Madrid-Shanghai flight at the health crisis in China, according to company sources. And Wednesday has decided to take the step, as he had done the morning British Airways (IAG also).
The Spanish airline has informed in a note that the suspension begins from Friday, the day had scheduled its next flight departing from Madrid. And the measure will last for, at the least, the entire month of February. "Customers ticketed to fly on the route have been offered reimbursement or date change," said the firm in a statement. In addition, Iberia will continue to monitor adds that the decision to decide whether to extend it for longer.
Thus, the Spanish airline joins British Airways, which has also suspended with "immediate effect" all flights to or from mainland China due to the crisis of the coronavirus of Wuhan, according to a statement released Wednesday morning by the company. In the same note adds that it has taken the decision "following the recommendations of the Foreign Office [Foreign Ministry]" to avoid travel to the country focus of infection. The company, which operates flights daily from London Heathrow Airport to Beijing and Shanghai, part of the IAG Group, which also form part Vueling, Air Lingus and Level.
"We have suspended all flights to and from mainland China with immediate effect," stated in the company statement, which stressed that the safety of its passengers and crew is "always" a priority. The crisis of the virus has so far caused 169 deaths in China, where more than 6.000 affected, and has already jumped to the United States, Europe, Australia, the Persian Gulf and many Asian countries.
The Russian carrier Ural Airlines, which travels to Munich, Paris and Rome, has also announced the suspension of all flights to Europe due to the spread of the new coronavirus that spans China on Wednesday. Tourists from the Asian giant Russian airports massively used as a transit point to European soil.
"Because of the epidemic situation in China and the implementation of restrictive measures by the authorities of the country and the agency Russian tourism aimed at Chinese and Russian tourists, Ural Airlines is forced to cancel a number of flights up to the end of the winter ", announced the company public Russian news agency TASS.
Air France, meanwhile, allows its passengers cancel or postpone their flights to China without charge, although it maintains 23 weekly connections with the country. She canceled last week which were destined Wuhan, the origin of the epidemic. According to the airline, passengers who have a flight until end of February can request refund or change the date of travel at no cost.
German airline Lufthansa also maintains its flights to China normally. Although assured that "carefully observe the situation." So far, all flights to China and from China have taken off as planned, as reported by the company. The German group noted that already there has been some cautious reservations for flights to China.
Lion Air, Indonesia airline, announced the suspension of its flights to China from Saturday. This airline, along with its subsidiary Batik Air offers flights to 15 Chinese cities and transports a million tourists from the Asian giant a year to Indonesia.
The US airline United Airlines, meanwhile, announced the suspension of some of its flights to Beijing, Shanghai and even Hong Kong from 1 (Saturday) and 8 February. US authorities have advised their citizens not to travel to China right now.
Meanwhile, agencies Spanish specialized travel have already taken the first step before the crisis of the coronavirus, "Travel agencies are informing customers, both those who bought and those who want to buy bound for China on affected areas and restrictions exist, "insured has Wednesday César Gutiérrez, president of the Business Federation of Associations Territorial Spanish Travel Agencies (Fetave), who added:". it is low season and is affecting least since we are agency offering other possible destinations and airlines are giving us all the facilities for exchanges and returns. "
Most companies in the sector and advise cancel or modify the charter flights to China. And airlines allow them to perform free of charge. "We are helping our customers change travel dates or cancel them", she said Tuesday El Pais Carlos Garrido, president of the Spanish Confederation of Travel Agents (CEAV).
And as companies suspended flights, several governments are mounting air operations to repatriate their nationals trapped in Wuhan.