The first confirmed case in Spain coronavirus Wuhan, a German tourist, is "perfectly" and no symptoms of the disease. He and five other German citizens who were negative in tests remain in quarantine at the Our Lady Hospital Guadalupe Island of La Gomera for possible contain contagions, as reported Saturday morning Fernando Simon, director of the Coordinating Center Health emergencies.
Simon has given some details of the case following a ministerial meeting evaluation and monitoring of the coronavirus, which was held at the Ministry of Health. Right now there is no other case study. The patient contracted the disease confirmed in Germany, after a "very direct" contact with an employee which had transmitted a female colleague who came from China. At the time of infection, this had some symptoms (although still had not tested positive), so the hypothesis that the disease can be transmitted by asymptomatic patients is increasingly losing weight, according to Simon.
German tourists who are now in quarantine arrived in Spain on 28 night from Munich. At the next day, to notify the German authorities the positive in the case of the employee and have the record that those who had traveled to Spain had maintained contact with him, it was decided, in principle, a home insulation in the municipality of Hermigua. After doing tests, five of them were negative, but remain quarantined and under observation. The other was positive, so their situation is confinement in a hospital room, although on no symptoms, does not require any special care. This is a precautionary measure.
Health authorities are now looking for contacts to track if they appear symptoms of the disease. Two people who will track them be who traveled to her on the plane. Canary President Victor Angel Torres, reported Saturday that tourists came to Tenerife and, hence, went to La Gomera by boat, reports Pedro Murillo. The victim made the trip, an hour, to the side of a window, which "minimizes the risks." "There is an accurate description since he left Germany" has assured the head of the Epidemiology service Canaries Domingo Nunez. "On the boat he did not move even to go to the bathroom;. There was no contact with other passengers There is no reason to think about contact risk." The port of San Sebastian de La Gomera were moved by rental car to Hermigua, one small town located 20 kilometers from the capital where many houses are located.
Health Minister, Salvador Illa, expressed his confidence in the NHS. "The detection and warning systems are working. We have already warned that it was possible that some cases were detected in Spain", he has assured after the meeting between the government responsible. Illa has announced that it will convene all health counselors of the autonomous communities in an extraordinary inter-territorial council early next week to study the situation and, if necessary, strengthen the prevention and detection of the virus week.
Meanwhile, the Spanish quarantined arrived on Friday to the Gómez Ulla hospital in Madrid also in perfect condition, the ministry reported. The center is coordinating how will the regime of family visits. The twenty nationals who are on the 17th floor of the military hospital grounds do not require evidence first, since they are not "risk cases" in the words of Simon, "simply they remain in quarantine" that China had already imposed in Wuhan.
Wuhan coronavirus has already left 304 dead and affected more than 14,000 worldwide. Of these, 151 are in 23 countries other than China. The rapid ascent of the number of cases-just over a month has exceeded the number of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS, for its acronym in English), history more similar- and the first contagions outside China-and there have been not imported into Germany, the UK, Japan, Taiwan and Vietnam led the World Health Organization (WHO) to declare the international health emergency on Thursday. This measure allows the body to coordinate actions and make recommendations to countries, but so far have not substantially changed compared to before the global alarm. It has been ruled advising countries to restrict trade or travel to China.