Health authorities in the city of Wuhan, in central China, reported that the number of people infected with the new coronavirus associated with pneumonia outbreak rose to 62, local authorities reported.
According to the Health Committee of Wuhan, until Sunday had confirmed 17 new cases of the disease. Two people have died and eight are still in serious condition, while 19 have recovered and have left the hospital.
The virus, a new strain of coronavirus, has caused alarm because of its similarity that causes Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 800 people in mainland China and Hong Kong in 2002-2003.
The progress of this new virus has been concentrated in Wuhan, capital of Hubei Province, before the holidays of the Chinese Lunar New Year this January 24 when hundreds of millions of people travel in the country.
Airports and railway stations have reinforced security measures through the use of devices designed to measure the temperature of travelers.
At the least half a dozen countries in Asia and three US airports introduced controls on passengers arriving by plane from central China.
They have also reported three cases abroad: two in Thailand and one in Japan, both related to people who traveled from Wuhan.
Wuhan is a city of 11 million people that serves as a major transportation hub, including during the annual leave of the Lunar New Year.
Li Gang, director and chief physician of the Wuhan Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said the spread of the virus from one person to another is not strong.
Most patients had moderate symptoms, Li said, and had not found related in more than 700 people who came into contact with the sick cases.
This "not rule out the possibility of a limited transmission between humans, but the risk of continued spread from human to human is low," he added in statements to the CCTV station.
The World Health Organization said in a tweet on Sunday that some of the new cases are apparently unrelated to the Huanan seafood market, considered the center of the outbreak of this new strain of virus.
(Source: Telesur)