Coronavirus epidemic threat Wuhan, increasingly becoming a new element of friction -one more- in the complicated relations between the US and China. Beijing has made clear his displeasure about how Washington reacted to the biggest catastrophe experienced by the Asian country in years. Measures such as the suspension of flights or veto travelers from China only serve as the government of President Xi Jinping, to "create and spread fear."
It is the second time in just three days, Beijing has made clear his irritation at what he considers an overreaction of the first power. Monday, at a press conference over the Internet, as part of measures to avoid crowds and prevent contagios-, the spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Hua Chunying accused Washington that, in addition to jumpstart access to a global race to close borders and air traffic, "still has not offered any substantial help to the Chinese side".
The epidemic is still far from being under control in China. The dead and added 425 more than the 348 who left SARS in this country in 2003. Those infected are more than 19,000, of which at the least 2,296 are in serious condition, according to figures released Tuesday early.
And it will have lasting consequences. On Monday, the National Development and Reform Commission, the powerful agency responsible for economic planning in China, acknowledging that leave a serious negative effect on the economy of the country, especially in the field of consumption. In its reopening after the Lunar New Year, the crash of the stock markets despite the promise of the Central Bank injected liquidity by 154.000 million euros to alleviate the impact of the epidemic served in advance: the main indicator of the Shanghai Stock Exchange, the SSE, fell more than 7.7%, the biggest decline since 2015, while the second Chinese park, the Shenzhen, was down 8.41%.
But official data begin to appear signs of hope that Beijing and Chinese citizens cling and state media broadcast enthusiastically. The number of recovered, 477 according to the numbers of the National Health Commission exceeds from this weekend to the deceased. Cases of infection outside Hubei province focus of the epidemic, also decrease for two days, a possible indication that the drastic measures imposed by the central government against the spread of the virus begin to take effect.
These "green shoots" feed anger Beijing has responded to how the United States too hastily from their point of view. Commercial and technological war, paused after the signing of an agreement first phase in December, convinced the Government of Xi that has started a new "cold war", in which the ultimate goal of Washington is to prevent the rise of China . Beijing now interprets the behavior of EE. UU in this epidemic as yet another attempt to try to weaken it. White House responds that his behavior is due to reasons of public health.
"In a globalized world, the destinies of all countries are closely linked. Facing a public health crisis, countries should work together to overcome difficulties rather than resorting to impoverish the neighboring, much less take advantage of the difficulties of others, "Hua has lashed out. Over the weekend, the spokesman had already argued in a statement that Washington acts "are not a gesture of goodwill".
EE. UU, which has confirmed nine infections on its soil, was the first country to announce that repatriate their nationals trapped in Wuhan, origin of the epidemic, after the city of eleven million inhabitants imposed on 23 quarantine sudden that blocked all accesses. So far it has evacuated about 200 citizens, most consular officials, and hopes to organize a second rescue operation.
Since Sunday, and after declaring an "emergency public health" they are closed its borders to any foreigner without family ties to US citizens or permanent US residents and has been in China within two weeks before arrival (fourteen days is the maximum incubation) time. In addition, US airlines also have temporarily suspended their flights at least until the end of March.
US President Donald Trump, said in an interview with the television channel Fox News that "we have offered a tremendous help (to China), we are the best in the world for that. But we can not have thousands of people coming to they could have this problem, the coronavirus. "" Basically, we have taken the closure to keep out from China. "the White House has also complained that Beijing has not agreed so far, his offer to send public health specialists of their centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Beyond reproach, the coronavirus may have other effects on the relationship between China and the US, experts warn. The economic impact of the crisis and the attention it requires Chinese leaders may complicate Beijing fulfills the commitments of sharp increases in imports of agricultural products, energy and manufacturing from US. "The travel restrictions and border closures will hinder minimum logistics to meet those goals," said analyst Michael Hirson, from consultancy Eurasia Group, in a note.
If motivates epidemic decline extended the price of the yuan against the -these dollar days has crossed the key border seven yuan to the dollar, "Trump can resume their criticism against China on its policy exchange rate," said Hirson.