A new virus has China on alert. It is a mysterious pneumonia, which has infected dozens of people in the city of Wuhan and corresponding to a new strain of a similar coronavirus which in 2002 caused the epidemic of SARS syndrome (Severe Acute Respiratory, for its acronym in English). This was confirmed by the Chinese, CCTV, the national television According to research by a group of scientists has isolated the genetic sequence of the infectious agent.
Medical tests have confirmed the presence of this new pathogen in 15 of the 59 cases detected since early December, all in Wuhan, capital of Hubei Province. The origin of most of these infections has been located in a fish market and seafood, in which live animals were traded. Since then, the area has been closed and quarantined. To date, none of the patients died and even eight patients, which no longer showed any symptoms, were released yesterday high Wednesday. Local health authorities have ensured that was not detected no transmission between humans.
Coronaviruses, which are named for the shape of a crown that adopt a view to the microscope, usually attack the airways of mammals. To date only six were known. Four causes mild symptoms similar to those of a cold. The other two, however, are notorious: in 2002, the coronavirus SARS, which originated in China, killing more than 700 people worldwide; while in 2015 the MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) left 449 dead.
Given the history, the news has been received with concern in the country. "I am very afraid. I remember the SARS appeared together before the Spring Festival and then by transportation expanded, "wrote a user on Weibo, social network similar to Twitter. His words refer to the Chinese New Year, which in 2020 will take place on 25 January. On the occasion of this national holiday, it is tradition that people return to the family home, causing the largest human migration in the world, with over 3,000 million journeys: an ideal setting for the spread of a virus.
The mysterious ailment, however, could have already jumped beyond the borders of the Asian giant. In South Korea, a woman of Chinese nationality has been put into isolation before the possibility of being infected, he said on Wednesday the Center for Disease Control and Prevention of Korea (KCDC). The woman, 36, was diagnosed with pneumonia on Tuesday after two business trips in which visited Wuhan and other cities. Neighboring countries, meanwhile, have begun to take extra security measures at airports.
The World Health Organization does not consider it necessary, for the moment, establish special measures for travelers. This was announced in a statement released this morning, saying that "new coronavirus appear regularly [...] and China has a strong health system, able to respond to and manage outbreaks of respiratory infections." The institution, which has shown its willingness to provide technical support to the health authorities of the country, has ruled that "in the coming weeks more comprehensive information will be needed to better understand the current status and the epidemiology of the outbreak."
In the same vein scientists responsible for identifying the virus have been expressed, ensuring that your initial finding must be supplemented by further research. Although it is possible to obtain evidence of the presence of pathogens in a short period of time, the production of a vaccine can take years. Professor David Hui Shu-cheong, an expert in respiratory medicine at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, insured has to the South China Morning Post who have yet to clarify some key details like "What animal is the source of the virus, the incubation period and the transmission path ". Some specialists, such as Peng Yihong, professor of the Faculty of Medicine of Beijing, have speculated that the cause of the outbreak could be "pathogens contained in karstic caves, place of origin of many of the seafood that goes to the market" .