more than 4,500 patients and 106 deaths
The number of infected Wuhan coronavirus is growing and increasingly makes it faster. According to the latest data provided by the National Commission of Health of China, in the past 24 hours 25 people have died and the total death toll reaches 106 nationwide.
The number of confirmed cases, meanwhile, has already reached the 4,515 Tuesday, 59% more than the 2,835 offered Monday. Among the patients, 515 are in serious condition. The number of suspected cases slashing 7,000, while remaining under observation nearly 45,000 people.
Santiago Moreno, head of department of infectious diseases of the Hospital Ramon y Cajal in Madrid, these figures are "very significant" and show that "the outbreak is still in its early stages." "The upward curve is still very strong, which means that a lot still to reach the peak," says Moreno, Oriol Guell reports.
Hong Kong, where there are confirmed eight cases, drastically limited the admission of visitors coming from China from midnight on Thursday. In a press conference, the head of the HKSAR government, Carrie Lam, covered with a mask, has announced that the autonomous territory paralyzed the train service and high-speed ferry that connects the autonomous territory with mainland China. also halved flights between Hong Kong and the rest of China, and drastically cut back bus services.
Beijing has agreed, meanwhile, to stop issuing permits individual Chinese citizens to visit Hong Kong. In November, the last month with available data, the former British colony received 1.92 million visitors from mainland China.
Hong Kong measures come after a group of doctors from leading universities of the country were asked tougher measures for the entry of visitors from China.
The announcement comes after the first cases of infection of people who have not been to China. After Vietnam last Friday confirmed the first case on Tuesday did Germany and Japan, with one case respectively. In the German case it is a man who attended a training course gave an employee arrival of Shanghai. In Japan, a bus driver for 60 years in the resort town of Nara.
At a meeting in Beijing with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi -member of the working group responsible for coordinating the response to the epidemic, the director general of the World Health Organization, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, has expressed support for the measures China has taken to tackle the spread of the disease. As reported by the Chinese ministry said in a statement, Tedros expressed "confidence WHO China's ability to prevent and control the epidemic," and stressed that this organization does not defend foreign countries evacuate their nationals. "There is no need to overreact," he said.
United States, Japan, France and Morocco prepare the evacuation of their citizens trapped in Wuhan after last Thursday entered into force quarantine remains isolated 46 million people in fifteen cities in Hubei province, including Wuhan the focus of the epidemic and an important industrial and transport knot.
Japan, with more than 500 residents in the city, plans to send a plane this Tuesday, as to the United States. France, which has up to a thousand citizens in Wuhan, expects its nationals to start out on Thursday.
In addition to Wuhan, the city where the epidemic began, and its province (Hubei), cases of fatalities were already in Beijing, Shanghai and the provinces of Hebei, Heilongjiang (northeast China), Henan (center) and Hainan (south). Tibet, which remains the only province where no cases have been reported, has announced that it will impose a fourteen-day quarantine all visitors.
According Tuesday has informed the Commission of Health, the strain of coronavirus 2019-nCov is similar to 85% in 2003 which triggered the SARS epidemic that killed nearly 800 people worldwide. The average incubation period is three to seven days, with a maximum of 14 days. In addition to the air, the pathogen can also spread by touch.
Worldwide, after the first case detected in Germany, there are already a dozen countries that the infection has spread, with a total of more than 40 infected. The United States has offered "all necessary assistance" to China to fight the epidemic, after the second economy of the world recognize problems for the supply of protective material in hospitals in Wuhan. Washington, Berlin and Ankara have discouraged their citizens to travel to China. Russia has closed three of its eastern provinces bordering with China, and suspended entries organized groups from that country.
To overcome the shortage of beds, Wuhan built at full speed two hospitals and expects to increase its supply of seats by about 6,000. In addition, according to the digital Jiemian News, Beijing will operate the Xiaotangshan hospital, north of the capital, which also rose in record time in 2003 to provide treatment then to SARS patients. The port city of Tianjin, about 200 kilometers from the capital, has also put forward that builds its own medical center Express.
Chinese scientists try to make a vaccine against the clock. As reported by the state news agency Xinhua, a university hospital in Shanghai has approved urgently a project to develop a vaccine against the coronavirus 2019-nCoV. Scientists hope to produce the first samples in 40 days, according to the agency.
In Hong Kong, where Tuesday is the last holiday of the celebrations of the Lunar New Year, the regional government has asked its officials not come to the office and instead work from home. It has also recommended private companies to do the same as far as possible.
The Beijing government had already taken similar measures. The State Council, the Chinese government has extended holidays until 2 February. Schools will remain closed until further notice to prevent possible infection.