The United States reported its first case of transmission from person to person, the fifth country outside China to do so. Experts say that these cases are especially troubling because they suggest greater potential for the virus from spreading further.
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director general of the WHO, announced the decision after a meeting of the emergency committee of the entity. At a press conference in Geneva, he said that in recent weeks have witnessed an unprecedented outbreak has met with an unprecedented response.
"Let it be clear, this statement is not a vote of censure to China," he said. "Our biggest concern is the possibility that the virus will spread to countries with weaker systems health."
The declaration of a global emergency generates recommendations for all countries to prevent or reduce transboundary spread of disease while avoiding unnecessary interference in trade and travel.
MAX EXTENDED SARS
Coronavirus infection in China has sickened more than 8,100 people worldwide, according to figures on Thursday, overcoming the SARS epidemic 2002-2003, the total, which anticipates the health crisis spreads could quickly strike a second blow to the world economy.
The virus originated in a market where wild animals illegally sold in the Chinese city of Wuhan, according to the latest official data. Also, I no record of 100 cases in other countries, from Japan to the United States.
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which also came from China, killed 800 people and cost the global economy an estimated 33,000 million, or 0.1% of world GDP in 2003.
PREVENTION MEASURES
Many countries began to isolate hundreds of citizens evacuated from China's Wuhan city in an effort to halt the global spread of the epidemic.
Google, Inc Alphabet of the group and the Swedish IKEA joined other big companies that paralyzed its activities in China, and increased the list of sporting events affected by the virus.
Airlines are suspending flights to mainland China including Lufthansa, Air Canada, American Airlines and British Airways.
The Chinese Football Association postponed the national parties in 2020 and qualifying matches for the Olympic Games women's football in Australia are in doubt before the Chinese team quarantined in a hotel in Brisbane.
Almost all the deaths have occurred in the central province of Hubei, where some 60 million people and is now virtually blocked.
It is too early to determine the mortality rate because there are probably many cases with milder conditions that may not be detected. To the Like other respiratory infections, coronavirus spread between people by droplets from coughing and sneezing. The virus has an incubation of one to 14 days, and there are signs that can spread before symptoms appear. Minister of National Health Commission of China, Ma Xiaowei, said that the virus was infectious during the incubation, which did not happen with SARS.
INSULATION PLANS
Countries that have evacuated their citizens from China have to decide what to do with them. Australia, South Korea, Singapore and New Zealand will be quarantined for at least two weeks on all evacuees, or show no symptoms, while the United States and Japan are considering voluntary isolation for shorter periods.
South Korean demonstrators used tractors to block access to the facilities for quarantine centers in the cities of Asan and Jincheon. A group demanded on Thursday that the place was installed farther away from homes and schools.
"I am a mother of two children aged 3 and 4 years," said Lee Ji-hyun. "I was so worried that I sent my in-laws".
President Moon Jae-in urged people not to give in to fear as the country was preparing to evacuate the first of the 700 citizens of Wuhan. "The weapons that will protect us from the new coronavirus is not the fear and loathing, but trust and cooperation," Moon said.