A black swan wanders through Asia and its global impact has yet to be determined. Wuhan coronavirus is a textbook example of unexpected event that affects the health and the economy. Protein consumption in emerging countries has soared as the economy and living standards have risen. Interaction between virus also animal and human diseases. known risks, but unfortunately increasingly common. which it can be curbed, but there is also a risk of it becoming a global pandemic. Previous experience was more like that of the Sars virus in 2002-2003. They have since improved prevention mechanisms and response to health alerts across Asia. In countries like South Korea, I have seen personally a few days, although the incidence is almost nil, public messaging networks and sanitary measures are considerable ago.
What is now handled is an important uncertainty already has a significant negative economic impact. To date, the consequences of these events have not spread beyond a few months. Not a big relief, in any case, because if the coronavirus becomes a pandemic, the effects can be serious in a moment of true decay. The strength of a weak global economy in 2020 goes through the evolution of the Chinese economy and the coronavirus does not help. The first reflections and appreciated. They have come for the price of crude. The fall in demand among other issues by lower industrial activity and land and air traffic in China reduced the price of a barrel Brent 6% only last week.
Value indices and stock market volatility have not yet reacted to these fears appreciably. But in the forums market analysis the risk of contagion is in every mouth. If this and other dangers such as geopolitical tensions with Iran are not reflected more in the markets it is because they are more aware of the central banks. Lax monetary policy seems to have undermined the ability to emit warning signals.
If you get to a pandemic, experience dictates that could be affected values ​​emerging companies, with falls of up to 20%. SARS life took 800 people and had an estimated cost of $ 50,000 million. Already more than 40 million Chinese citizens isolated but some analysts fear that this circle of protection has been late. It has rekindled the debate in the medical community about whether the massive use of antibiotics in farm animals is having a negative effect on immunity levels in humans. In favor of avoiding pandemic plays extension improved prevention mechanisms. In contrast, this virus takes five days to express their symptoms and no hypothesis about its origin, but not yet official confirmation.