The new coronavirus 2019-nCoV emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan has caused one of the biggest health crises in recent years. The following are the certainties and open questions about the episode.
How did the outbreak?
Chinese authorities reported last Dec. 31, 27 cases of pneumonia of unknown origin, seven of them seriously. The victims were apparently linked to a market in the city of Wuhan, a metropolis with 11 million inhabitants. The cause of the disease was identified on January 7 as a new coronavirus. China reported days later that the disease could be transmitted from person to person.
What causes the virus symptoms?
The virus infects the respiratory tract and cause symptoms ranging from mild illness (dry cough, fever ...) to acute respiratory failure and potentially fatal pneumonia.
How is it spread?
Have not been precisely determined mechanisms, although the most accepted form is through contact and through saliva droplets carrier the virus excreted coughing. The disease is spread among people who are close, at a distance of about one meter at most.
Is there asymptomatic cases?
It is not yet known exactly, although experts consider it likely, as has happened with other similar viruses.
Is there a treatment?
There is no specific treatment or vaccine, although there are several projects underway to get it. Medical care focuses on the symptoms and giving vital support to the patient. Antivirals such as oseltamivir, baloxavir, ribavirin and acyclovir are not effective against the virus. China is studying the combined use of lopinavir and ritonavir.
How is it diagnosed?
China issued the genetic sequence of the virus on January 10, three days after identification. This allowed to create a specific diagnostic protocol with which all member countries have. Without the analysis, it is virtually impossible to distinguish it from other types of pneumonia or flu. Large hospitals have a technology called PCR, which confirms the virus infection in a few hours, although in Spain the confirmations depend on the National Center for Microbiology.
What is the evolution of the disease?
The number of people affected has not stopped growing since last December 31 and the trend is still to the upside both in China and abroad.
It has been rapid expansion of the virus?
Experts stress that the high rate of spread of the virus. The cases in China in less than a month -the 29th January exceeded 6,000- 5,300 outnumber diagnosed with SARS.
What is a coronavirus?
They are a large family virus affecting humans and various animal species. So far there were six acquaintances who could make a person sick, four that cause the common cold, SARS of (emerging in 2002 also in China) and the MERS (in 2012 in Saudi Arabia). Coronavirus that only affect some species can undergo mutations that allow them to jump other and become virulent for humans. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS, its acronym in English) caused more than 800 deaths and respiratory syndrome Middle East (MERS) has caused 2,500 confirmed cases and 850 deaths. Research conducted so far suggest that the origin of both is on bats and this is the main hypothesis also in Wuhan.
What has the new virus lethality Wuhan?
Experts suggest that the mortality rate of the new pathogen is low, between 2% and 3%, compared to similar virus, preliminary data available. A SARS virus is credited with a mortality rate of between 10% and 18%, and that of the MERS reaches 35% of the reported patients, according to WHO.
Could the virus mutate and become more virulent?
Although all virus is susceptible to mutation, since it has remained fairly stable was located, according to the WHO says, warning that a scenario can not be ruled out.
What measures have been taken?
China has decided to quarantine the city of Wuhan, which is not possible to go out or come from dawn past, and more than a dozen nearby villages. They are widespread use of masks. In all, he has confined more than 46 million people. Airports in the vast majority of Asian countries and the United States, United Kingdom and Russia, among others, have established control measures to detect travelers with symptoms consistent from affected areas. Wuhan airport remains virtually closed.
What is WHO doing?
The organization has monitored the evolution of the outbreak practically from day one, since the coronavirus has placed among threats to cause a future global pandemic. The emergency committee has met twice and, though deeply divided, has not decided for now declare international emergency, although in the last week of January has changed from "moderate" to "high" rating overall threat posed by the virus .
What the international emergency declaration implies?
The declaration of a public health emergency of international concern is adopted before an outbreak a "severe, sudden, unusual and unexpected" situation with health consequences whose impact extends beyond the affected country. With the declaration the process that makes it possible to start an immediate and coordinated international action. WHO has adopted this decision five times: from influenza A in 2009, against polio in 2014, against ebola in West Africa in 2014, against zika in 2016 and last July against Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the congo.
Is there a risk for Spain?
The Ministry of Health believes that "taking into account the checks carried out by the Chinese authorities, the risk of introduction of the virus in Spain right now is considered very low." In any case, even if the virus arrived, "the impact on public health" would also be "very low".
How the new coronavirus be called?
At the moment, it has one provisional 2019-nCoV (new virus of 2019), but WHO will decide final one. Normally, they baptized with the name of the place where they were discovered, so it will probably be the virus Wuhan.