A similar situation was seen during the 2014 Ebola epidemic a health crisis of global reach appears, with great uncertainty about how it will evolve, causing concern in society. A perfect breeding ground to appear hoaxes, misinformation and distrust the health authorities. Six years ago mistakes were made in the government's communication by Spain to be remedied by making the front of Fernando Simon, director of the Coordination Center Alerts and Health Emergencies, which today is responsible for reporting the evolution of the coronavirus. But then the scenario of spreading lies and half-truths was not as complex as today.
A good example is what happened on Thursday and Friday with a statement of the renowned doctor Pedro Cavadas to the Public Mirror program of Antena 3. Cavadas is surgeon, not an expert on viruses or epidemics, but said, referring to the Chinese authorities: "If you recognize a number of dead and infected, eh, you do not need to be very clever to think that there are ten or a hundred times more." The alarming message of this video is massively spread through social networks like WhatsApp and Facebook, and later many media collected these statements and spread among its readers. A margin of the intentions of the doctor, who would certainly be good, it seems the voice indicated to report on this outbreak.
"In this case, several things come together, because Cavadas has great prestige and authority in his field and among the public, but at times like this we must be very careful with what they say, especially if you're not an expert and no accounts direct information, "says Carolina Moreno, professor at the University of Valencia and expert in scientific and medical misinformation. "It's an opinion, but people do not take it as an opinion more because it is a highly respected physician, and does not help strengthen confidence in the authorities, so necessary in these cases," he adds. Disinformation is not all malicious or deliberate.
The coordinator of the initiative #SaludSinBulos, Carlos Mateos, believes that in situations like the present, with 19 Spaniards returning from the area affected by the virus, no speculation should be disseminated. "And if you speculate missing, other persons or institutions with expertise in the subject, which is reference in the field. If anyone should doubt the opacity of China, which is the perfect seed for disinformation, who are experts, workers field or WHO itself, "he says.
Mateos has identified numerous hoaxes that are circulating through all kinds of channels since the outbreak of the crisis in the media. Especially those related images difficult to locate, but high impact. "We must be cautious, wary of someone who appears with mask, for example, which can be anywhere or any year. However, spread very easily and very fast," laments Mateos, vice president of the Association of Researchers in eHealth.
Especially hoaxes have circulated and misinformation with an origin outside Spain, encouraging all kinds of conspiracies about the cause, the motives and the "hidden truth" about the outbreak. But with the repatriation of Spanish from Wuhan they appear many more Spanish invoice, according Mateos, giving the appearance of closeness to the hospital or returned. For example, on the platform of fact-checking Maldita.es have disproved a canard that ran through mobile which ensures that the "Ministry of Health" (in Spain is the Ministry of Health) has issued a "notice of emergency" in which reports that "the outbreak of coronavirus this time is very serious and deadly". all false. In his last appearance, Fernando Simon said that "the epidemic is likely to begin to subside soon."
In addition to the press conferences is giving Simon the Ministry of Health has agreed with the platform Twitter to refer to its official account when users view on this matter. To avoid confusion, experts ask you deal only voices authorized or official accounts of agencies involved. Otherwise, noise can cause confusion and distrust the management of the epidemic.
Two days ago, the country secured in its editorial that "we must therefore keep a vigilant watch, but without falling into alarmism that may aggravate the inherent damage to an epidemic of this nature." In the same way, The New York Times warned in an editorial that distrust of science and institutions can be a serious problem if the worsening outbreak: "Another major problem is the lack of public trust: the measures of control only work if people follow them. And it's much less likely that people follow orders when they do not trust the authorities. " And he remembers again the case of ebola: "Trust can be as important as technology and financial resources to keep at bay the outbreak of coronavirus, as they learned workers in global health during outbreaks recent Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo ".
Javier@esmateria.com can write to us or follow STUFF on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram or subscribe to our newsletter here.