The closure of cities to control the transmission of the new coronavirus spreads in China. After the abrupt quarantine imposed from Thursday to Wuhan, the city of 11 million inhabitants focus of infection, the authorities have ordered the isolation of four others nearby. Huanggang, 7.5 million, will close its railway station from this midnight. Do the same the smallest relatively Ezhou, of a population of one million residents. Two other smaller towns, Chibi and Zhijiang, have also restricted the movements of their neighbors.
The World Health Organization has ruled this afternoon to declare the international alert, but also said it could meet again for this reason in the coming days. WHO has warned: "The global community must be prepared".
In Huanggang, located about 70 kilometers from Wuhan, public transport and trains will stop leaving their station it will stop until further notice. They also remain closed public meeting places such as cafes or cinemas, according to a local government. Residents have been ordered not to leave the town unless special circumstances. Ezhou, about 60 kilometers, will stop working train stations.
Chinese in other large cities, local governments have announced the cancellation of public celebrations of the Lunar New Year, starting this Saturday, to prevent contagion. Mayor of Beijing announced the cancellation of large events: no popular temple fairs, which bring together thousands of people in some of the parks and busiest in the capital temples with an offer of shows traditional will be held and games. A measure that adds to Wuhan, the autonomous region of Macau and the coastal province of Zhejiang.
In that province, Hangzhou city of 9.8 million inhabitants, has announced that these days suspend their shows and tours on larger boats in its West Lake, its main tourist attraction. museums are also closed and other points where visitors tend to congregate.
The most recent data on the coronavirus known as Wuhan 2019-nCoV place where 25 dead and 830 infected, about one hundred more than the figures of the previous day. The new deceased has been notified by the authorities of Hebei Province and is the first that occurs outside of Wuhan. The pathogen has arrived in Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Singapore and the United States.
25 dead, according to official data released Thursday has the National Health Commission of China, are mostly men. Almost all of above 70 years old and with pictures of other diseases ages. The youngest victim is a 48 year old woman with a history of diabetes and cerebral infarction. All they are residing in the province of Hubei, where the cities under quarantine.
While growing concern about the virus, which expands coinciding with the travel season for Lunar New Year -the largest mobilization of the world, which are estimated about 3,000 million desplazamientos-, a study published by a team of five scientists from various Chinese universities notes that snakes are probably the animal that transmitted the pathogen to humans.
Chinese authorities had traced the source of infection in Huanan market in Wuhan City, the seventh of the country and a major transportation hub that has been isolated from quarantine Thursday. In this market, although its official name described it as a selling point of seafood and fish, numerous species of wild animals sold from wolf pups bats. The National Health Commission admitted that the virus was transmitted from one animal to humans, but did not specify what species could be treated.
A first study published Tuesday in the journal Science China Life Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, had analyzed the relationship between the new coronavirus and the like. Among its findings, he had found that the pathogen was closely related to a strain that infects bats. But he had also indicated the likelihood of contagion had occurred through an intermediate animal. However, the five Chinese scientists report published by the Journal of Medical Virology suggests that animal is probably a snake.
"The 2019-nCoV appears to be a recombinant virus between coronavirus bats and other coronavirus of unknown origin" to experts. "Our research concludes that the snake is the most likely wild animal".
The study, remember that snakes were among the species sold in the market Wuhan, states that in southeastern China, the area where is this city are endemic two species, Chinese or Naja atra cobra and Bulgarus multicinctus. Snakes "were also sold in the market for Huanan, where many of the patients worked or had a history of exposure to farm animals or wild," they explain.
Although consumption is unusual, snake meat is prized in Chinese tradition for its alleged aphrodisiac properties, to provide heat in winter and give a healthier looking skin.
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which in 2003 killed about 700 people in China and other countries, was linked to the consumption of civet meat, a wild cat native to South and Southeast Asia.