According to a German television report, there is now a thirteenth case of new coronavirus in Germany, the wife of a patient in Bazhou. Bazhou's Ministry of Health announced Thursday that pathogens had been detected in her. A few days ago, the couple's two children were infected with the virus. According to the doctor, the child is as asymptomatic as the mother. The health of the father who first fell ill was stable.
A total of 13 people in Germany are now infected with the new coronavirus and isolated. Two of them are German expatriates from Hubei Province. The other patients were related to Webasto company in Bazhou, Germany. A Chinese employee recently came to the company and held a seminar. Subsequently, many employees were infected. The Chinese employee returned to China only to be found suffering from the new coronavirus. A German holidaymaker who was on holiday in Spain was found to have a new coronavirus and has been quarantined. The 26 year old, who is also from Bavaria, has contacts with an employee of Webasto.
RTL television reported that German health minister Jens Spahn visited the quarantine station in the town of gemesheim on Wednesday. He said that the new crown epidemic has not reached its peak, not yet in China, nor in the world or Germany. Germany does not rule out the possibility of new patients.
According to the Ministry of health of Rhineland pfartz state, more than 100 German expatriates returned from China were re examined and no new coronavirus patients were found. All returned overseas Chinese are in good condition at present. The parties are committed to making their two-week quarantine a pleasant one.
In terms of whether to introduce immigration restrictions, Spang said that after the US set immigration restrictions, whether Europe should adopt immigration restrictions has become a matter of public opinion.
Sharit hospital in Berlin has acquired a new coronavirus from patients in Bazhou and is studying drugs to treat the virus, according to West Germany radio. Hospitals have found that patients may have few symptoms, but they carry many pathogens. This makes it more difficult to find and isolate patients in time. Sharit hospital decided to send pathogens to European research institutions so as to make efforts to find the right drugs as soon as possible.
