For example, one report of the times is titled "Spring Festival without celebration", and the other is titled "fight against the virus with all state power". The daily newspaper published in Berlin highlights the growing number of infected people. German TV Evening News reported China's illness under the title of "the wave of pneumonia brings shadow to the new year", and another title is "looking at the year of the rat in panic". "South Deutsche Zeitung" 26 evening an online report entitled "coronavirus: Xi Jinping can not control the situation."
When China began to seal Wuhan, the German media immediately discussed whether it was a way to fight against the new virus with Chinese characteristics. But then the list of closed cities continued to grow, and the German media began to discuss whether this was a restriction on civil liberties. Wuhan's fierce pneumonia has gradually turned Germany into an enemy. Germany's top politicians demand that German health departments and hospitals be ready in time. German medical experts reassured the public through the media, saying that Germany has the ability to deal with new viruses, but also warned people not to be careless.
Germany's Bildungsroman Bildungsroman reported Saturday that there was a suspected case in Berlin. A woman who came back from a trip to China with cough and other symptoms was taken to hospital on the evening of the 25th. But the next day at noon out of the test results, this person only got a common cold. The health department lifted the warning.
But the good news didn't last long. On the evening of 27, a new coronavirus patient appeared in Germany for the first time. The Ministry of health in Bavaria confirmed that a man from the stanberg District of Bavaria had been infected. However, the patient is in good health, has been isolated and continues to receive observation. Bazhou says Bazhou people are at low risk of new coronavirus infection.
Given that France, the United States, Japan and other countries have announced that they will withdraw their citizens from the city of Wuhan, Germany has also begun to consider withdrawing overseas Chinese. "We are considering withdrawing all Germans who are willing to leave," foreign minister Marcus said at a news conference on Monday, Reuters reported Maas also said that Germans should avoid all unnecessary travel to China. A spokesman for the German Foreign Ministry said there were about 90 German citizens in Wuhan; there was no sign that Germans in Wuhan had been affected by the coronavirus.
Berlin, the capital, has put up posters warning of the coronavirus at the airport, the world daily reported. There are warning posters at teger and schneifeld Airports
。 Airport spokesman said the posters were posted in the arrival area, which mentioned the symptoms of pneumonia in Wuhan and preventive measures. The posters are in German, English and Chinese. "For some specially selected flights from China, we will also send notes to passengers." If you are suspected of illness, you can contact the airport staff at any time.
German hospitals have enough capacity to cope with the arrival of coronavirus, a number of medical experts told the media.
Dilek kalayci, health minister of the city government, warned people not to panic, the Berlin Morning Post reported. According to estimates from Robert Koch college, the risk of a coronavirus impact in Germany is currently low, she said. The emergency department and emergency service department of each hospital have got the information about the pneumonia and are ready to deal with it. Berlin has the Institute of Virology and the sharit hospital in the center of the city has a special isolation ward. This will help Berlin fight the new virus.
German focus Weekly reported that Xinhua news agency released a news report on the 26th that Chinese doctors have achieved preliminary results in treating patients with new virus. More than ten patients not only did not have fever, but also checked again if there was coronavirus, the result was negative. If the news is true, it will be the first glimmer of a turnaround in the epidemic.
