In addition, some Chinese netizens who are infected with the virus have revealed that they are getting better after taking AIDS drugs. Does this mean there is a link between the new coronavirus and HIV?
In this regard, Fargo interviewed French experts in the field of coronavirus research, Professor Isabelle Imbert, a scholar at the University of Aix Marseille in South France, and Professor Anne goffard, a coronavirus research expert at the University of Lille in North France.
Neither of the above scholars has heard of the Indian scholars' articles. For them, it is unbelievable that the new coronavirus carries the HIV gene sequence.
Professor Anne goffard said straightforwardly: she has personally verified the gene sequence of the new coronavirus submitted by China, which has no HIV component at all. It's all bullshit. She confirmed that the virus was not a product of "human intervention.". She called on people to think with their own brains and not easily believe any rumors on the Internet.
She further explained: "coronavirus and HIV are two very different viruses. From a virological point of view, it is absolutely impossible for them to appear at the same time unless they are genetically manipulated and modified in the laboratory. However, no laboratory in the world will make similar manipulation, and it will take time, at least six months to a year to do so. We must stop spreading rumors of conspiracy theory, which is a virus from animals to humans. "
Professor Isabelle Imbert, a scholar at the University of Aix Marseille, also told Taiwan: "if we compare the gene sequence of the new coronavirus with that of SARS virus in Guangdong Province in 2003, we can clearly find the common ground between the two. I still think bats should be the main source of many kinds of coronaviruses, and we have provided enough evidence in dealing with the last SARS virus. I think this time, the virus from bats has found the right protein base in humans to effectively add to the replication. "
So, if the new coronavirus patients take AIDS drugs can have curative effect, does this mean that the new coronavirus is related to AIDS?
In response, Professor Isabelle Imbert replied that the two should not be confused
。 In the aspect of antiviral, there have been many studies in this field. Some small molecules in the drug will enter the virus tissue and prevent the further propagation of the virus, and the growth of each virus depends on replication. Although the new coronavirus and HIV are not the same kind of virus at all, because chromosomes compile proteins into different sequences, and despite their different shapes, antiviral molecules can still prevent their reproduction. But that doesn't mean there is any link between the coronavirus and HIV. This is ridiculous!
In addition, Gilead company claims to develop a new pneumonia drug, ridcivir, which has cured a patient in the United States. However, Gilead Gilead company is very careful to declare that "ridcivir is a drug under research, which has not been approved for market in any country, its safety and effectiveness have not been confirmed, and there is no number of therapeutic effects against the new coronavirus at present According to. The company claims to be exempt from patent in China. According to the introduction, Gilead's medicine is developed on the basis of the medicine for treating Ebola virus. Is similar medicine feasible?
In response, Professor Isabelle Imbert replied: "this is developed by Gilead, a pharmaceutical company in the United States. Their information is public. They have also developed drugs for the treatment of hepatitis C. They found a very effective chemical molecule to treat Ebola, which is a very effective medicine. The drug is also used to treat SARS and Morse coronavirus, and the effect is very significant. This is because the two viruses are homologous to Ebola's virus. So the drugs they developed are likely to be suitable for the treatment of coronavirus as well. "
