With the death toll from coronavirus rising in China, the fear of the virus spreading in India as well is rising with each passing day. The sale of N95 pollution masks has risen significantly in the past few days.
Not just hospitals and hotel staff, but common people are also buying these masks, especially the three-layered variety of the N95 mask.
Meanwhile, Agra in Uttar Pradesh has reported two suspected patients of the coronavirus.
This couple had arrived in India about 20 days ago and after being affected from flu-like symptoms, they approached a private doctor who referred them to the district hospital. At the hospital, they were admitted in an isolation ward by the Rapid Response Team and their blood samples were sent for tests in Pune, Maharashtra.
The couple is a resident of the Belanganj area of Agra. Both of them are aeronautics engineering professors at a university in China. The husband is 32 years old while the wife is 34 years old.
At the condition of anonymity, the family of the couple told India Today that they had arrived in Agra on January 20. The husband is Indian while the wife is a Chinese national.
The wife first complained of cold and cough and then the husband too started feeling the symptoms having fever. Suspecting coronavirus infection, the two reached the district hospital where they were screened and admitted in the isolation ward.
Dr SK Verma of the district hospital said that the couple is being kept under watch and their blood samples are being sent for investigations. The report is expected to arrive in 48 hours.
Verma said that so far, seven out of 20 people who have come from China to Agra, have been screened and coronavirus has not been found in them. These people had visited Wuhan city in China in January. Eight of these people are women. Most of them are businessmen and their phones have bene kept on surveillance
. Nodal in charge Rachna Gupta said that the people who are left are still being screened.
Due to the fear of coronavirus, the staff of hospitals, hotels and other hospitality industry professionals are keeping extra precaution and almost all staffers in these establishments are using masks, especially the receptionists.
The Chinese tourists already in India are being watched for symptoms of the virus.
The Agra district administration has released toll-free helpline numbers for coronavirus suspects and any enquiries regarding coronavirus are being redirected to this helpline which has been setup at the District Magistrate's office.
