At present, the new coronavirus pneumonia has spread to 26 countries in the world, and the first confirmed case has appeared in Europe and Belgium. According to China's latest official statistics, there are 20520 confirmed cases and 426 deaths of the new coronavirus. French health minister Salomon said on Tuesday that in addition to expanding the risk area of the epidemic from Hubei to all over China, the "suspected infection symptoms" are more specific, not necessarily a fever of more than 38 degrees is "symptomatic", as long as people from China return to France have fever, respiratory system infection, or even no fever, as long as respiratory tract infection All are considered "suspected infections" and need to be examined.
France has also warned its citizens not to go to China if they are not necessary. France also suggests that French citizens who are still in China should return home.
In addition, the British government calls on all its citizens in China to leave. In response to the outbreak of a new coronavirus in China, the British government issued an appeal on Tuesday to urge all citizens in China to leave. Britain's foreign ministry has updated its tourism advice, saying there are still air services in other parts of China besides Hubei Province, the source of the outbreak. The British government is still trying to remove its citizens from Hubei. British Foreign Minister Rab said the government advised British citizens in China to leave if they can, so as to reduce the risk of the outbreak.
In addition, according to the statistics of the French tourism department, the number of Chinese tourists visiting Paris during the Chinese Spring Festival decreased sharply. French travel agencies have extended the suspension of Chinese travel to March 31, AFP reported. More than 3000 French tourists planning to visit China were affected. According to the statistics of French tourism department, the number of Chinese tourists visiting Paris during the Chinese Spring Festival has declined sharply. Affected by the new coronavirus epidemic, Chinese tourists to France have cancelled their itinerary. Statistics show that 80% of the trips to France were cancelled in January.
In addition, Belgium has the first confirmed case of new coronavirus infection. Patients and eight other citizens were withdrawn from Wuhan over the weekend. The patient was in good health and had no symptoms. At present, we are in hospital for further treatment. The other eight received medical observation.
