Of the 830 confirmed cases, 177 were serious and 34 had been "cured," the China Health and Health Commission said. In addition, there were 1072 suspected cases.
In order to prevent the rapid spread of pneumonia in Wuhan, Chinese authorities on Thursday imposed a comprehensive blockade on Wuhan, shutting down the city's buses, subways, ferries and long-distance passenger transport, and temporarily closing the airport and railway station access to Wuhan. The recovery time will be notified later. People can't enter or leave Wuhan without special reasons.
On Thursday, authorities in Hebei Province, close to Beijing, announced the province's first death from a new type of coronary pneumonia, which means it is the first death from pneumonia in Wuhan outside of Hubei Province, China, the birthplace of pneumonia in Wuhan. The dead man was eighty years old. On Friday, Heilongjiang Province announced a case of pneumonia death in Wuhan, bringing the number of deaths outside Hubei to two.
A second case of Wuhan pneumonia, a 40 year old resident of Wuhan, arrived in Japan on Sunday, Japanese authorities announced Friday.
In addition, Scotland is carrying out a medical examination of five people to confirm whether they have Wuhan pneumonia. If confirmed, Scotland will be the first group of Wuhan pneumonia patients in Europe, the BBC reported on Thursday.
French health minister boussin said late Thursday that no cases of pneumonia in Wuhan have been found in France. A Wuhan woman with fever broke into French customs Monday, meeting her best friend in France, and proudly posted a picture of her "victory meeting". There was a panic when the news came out.
The woman, surnamed Yan, who had fever and cough before boarding the plane, crossed the airport security check by taking antipyretic drugs and entered France. Later, she proudly published information in the wechat circle, boasting that she had traveled to Paris and Lyon with friends. After the incident spread in the Chinese circle in France, many people reported it to the Chinese embassy.
A spokesman for the Chinese embassy said Thursday that a woman with a fever had been found and asked to contact French emergency services to deal with it.
The panic later spread to the French community. On Thursday afternoon, the twitter account "conflicts" of 30000 followers announced an emergency message saying that "coronavirus has entered France", which triggered hot debate. Many French netizens left messages calling the above women "selfish", "stupid", "we are dead", etc., and worried that this might not be the only Chinese tourist who successfully broke through the customs.
France's Liberation Daily specifically refuted the rumour, pointing out that the lady had not confirmed her as a virus carrier
。
French health minister boussin told the media that there are no suspected cases in France at present, but said the controversial Chinese women are being tested. She stressed that if there was a positive reaction, it would be reported immediately.
