Stendiford said in an interview with the media that although the death rate caused by the virus should be lower than that caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (mers COV), the key problems such as how to spread the virus, the efficiency of interpersonal transmission, and the common source of the virus between human and animal remain unanswered. He said that with the arrival of China's Spring Festival, it is imperative that relevant agencies at this stage improve the effectiveness of monitoring and take the right strategy to curb the spread of the virus.
Standford said that Wuhan pneumonia and (2019-ncov) and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS CoV), the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (mers COV) belong to the same family, which has increased people's concern about the possibility of large-scale transmission of the new virus; in addition, similar to SARS CoV and mers CoV, the existing evidence shows that medical staff care for patients with infection There is also a risk of infection.
He said that at present, there are confirmed cases in Beijing, Shenzhen, Shanghai and other cities. On the other hand, there are also cases in Thailand, Japan, Taiwan and the United States. These patients outside China are all tourists from China. Based on the rapid spread of the epidemic, coupled with the analysis of disease models, he agrees with the British researchers' statement that the actual number of infections may be greatly underestimated. He said it is estimated that at least 1700 people around the world have been infected with the virus.
The emergence of this new virus has attracted public attention because there are still several key questions about the characteristics of Wuhan coronavirus that have not been answered, including how to spread the virus, the efficiency of human to human transmission, and the source of human and animal diseases of Wuhan coronavirus.
As with any virus that can be replicated in the human body, the mutation of the virus will change the infectivity, resulting in a great risk of epidemic transmission, said standyford. Especially during the coming Chinese new year price, it is expected that a large number of people will take a ride and travel by air. How to improve effective monitoring and put forward a correct strategy against the spread of the virus will become particularly important.
