China Southern China Agricultural University held a news conference on Friday. Professor Xiao Lihua introduced the Chinese joint research team to trace the possible sources of the coronavirus, and analyzed the genome of a variety of wild animals. By analyzing more than 1000 genomic samples, we found that pangolin is the potential intermediate host of the new coronavirus. Physical examination revealed that the positive rate of β - coronavirus in pangolin was 70%.
AFP quoted relevant Chinese sources and pointed out that after further isolation and identification of the virus, it was observed that pangolin has a typical coronavirus particle structure; finally, through the genome analysis of the virus, it was found that the sequence similarity between the isolated virus and the currently infected virus was as high as 99%.
According to AFP, the Chinese research team has not provided more evidence for pangolin as a new coronavirus vector. Professor James wood, a British scientist, said that all the genetic data must be checked to know if pangolin virus could be transmitted to humans. Moreover, the research result has not been published in the relevant scientific journals, and it is necessary to publish it in serious scientific journals to confirm the research results.
Jonathan balcha, another British scientist, said all genetic data was needed to know how close the pangolin virus was to humans.
Eric Leroy, a virologist and veterinarian at IRD, cautioned that in the case of Ebola, the study began in 1976 and the first results were published in 2005.
According to the international organization for animal protection, about 100000 pangolins are eaten by Asians and Africans every year, especially the Chinese and Vietnamese, who like the meat of pangolins to be delicious. Their bones and viscera are used as traditional Chinese medicine.
In 2016, the Convention on international trade in endangered species (CITES) listed pangolin as prohibited to catch and trade animals, but illegal hunting still exists.
