Stock market plummeted on Monday
As news of the spread of pneumonia in Wuhan spread, China's official news on Monday had 2744 people infected and 80 died. Asian stock markets such as Hong Kong and Japan plummeted, followed by a 1.44% drop in DAX in Frankfurt, all reflecting investor concerns about the Chinese market.
Flight cancellation and hotel reservation cancellation in some cities in China. China's Civil Aviation Administration has announced that the outbreak has resulted in flight cancellations, and airlines should refund passengers. In addition, some airlines have announced that they have agreed to refund air tickets for special periods or change the travel date for free. China Southern, China Eastern and Air China all fell to varying degrees. Cathay Pacific allows crew members to wear surgical masks to work.
China forbids citizens to travel abroad
With the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, China, the Chinese government has banned Chinese citizens from traveling abroad. Agence France Presse pointed out that the Spring Festival is the peak season for Chinese people to travel, and China prohibits its tourist groups from going abroad, which will crack down on Tourism in neighboring countries. In particular, the Spring Festival holiday is the peak season for Chinese tourists to travel and purchase abroad, but with the continuous introduction of travel restrictions, flight cancellations and other measures, the scale of Chinese people's overseas procurement team has been reduced.
As the United States sent a special plane to pick up citizens in Wuhan on Tuesday, France sent a special plane to pick up French citizens from Wuhan this week, that is, hundreds of French citizens flew directly from Wuhan to France. For security reasons, they will be immediately isolated and observed for 14 days.
Some travel agencies in France, mainly for Chinese tourists, have received many calls to cancel their trips to China, which will have a negative impact on China's tourism economy in the long run and also affect the global tourism revenue.
China is one of the largest tourism countries after France, Spain and the United States. 11% of China's economic growth comes from tourism.
Economic loss
SARS broke out in Asia in 2003. It spread from Guangzhou and Hong Kong in China to different countries in the world. According to the World Health Organization, more than 200 people died and more than 4000 people were infected at that time. It is estimated that it will cause economic losses of 10 to 15 billion US dollars to the mainland and surrounding areas of China and more than 30 billion US dollars to the global economy. Stocks fell as the spread of pneumonia in Wuhan affected luxury brands such as Hermes, Louis Vuitton and LVMH
。
The analysis points out that China's economic growth in 2019 is 6.1%, the lowest level in more than 30 years. With the signing of the first phase of trade agreement between China and the United States recently, the Chinese government had hoped to alleviate the slowing economic development with the help of consumption growth. However, the emergence of Wuhan pneumonia, a deadly human-borne virus, shows that China has experienced a serious public health crisis, which may lead to Threatening the development of China's economy, making the already very difficult economic development in 2020 face more challenges.
