According to the world daily today, epidemic prevention has retreated to the second tier? Xi Jinping: I have been conducting in person.
The report said that when Li Keqiang was appointed leader of the CPC Central Committee to deal with the new type of coronavirus infection pneumonia leading group, the French international radio station Chinese network said that after Xi Jinping took power, he was almost the leader of all important members of the Communist Party of China, but this group leader against Wuhan pneumonia fell on Li Keqiang's shoulder.
With the increasingly severe pneumonia epidemic in Wuhan, the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee rarely held a meeting on the first day of the new year, and decided to establish this new leading group.
According to CCTV China, Xi Jinping met with Tan Desai at the Great Hall of the people on 28 July. He said: "for the Chinese people, we are now carrying out a serious struggle." According to Xi Jinping, "the Chinese government attaches great importance to it, because the aim of the government is to put people's safety and health in the highest position. Therefore, I have been conducting and deploying the epidemic prevention and control work in person. I believe that as long as we have firm confidence, work together in the same boat, carry out scientific prevention and control, and make precise measures, we will surely overcome the epidemic. "
The report said, but Xinhua reported later that "Xi Jinping stressed that the Chinese people are fighting a serious battle with the new coronavirus infection of pneumonia. People's life safety and health are always the first, and epidemic prevention and control is the most important work at present. On the first day of the Chinese Lunar New Year, I presided over the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, made a comprehensive plan for strengthening epidemic prevention and control, established the central leading group for epidemic response, unified leadership, unified command, and classified guidance for all localities to do a good job in epidemic prevention and control. "
According to the report, the outbreak out of control has caused a lot of public resentment in China. Zhao Kezhi, China's minister of public security, told a national video conference of public security organs on Tuesday to crack down on all kinds of illegal acts of slander and slander, Xinhua reported. We will improve our political position and resolutely safeguard the overall social stability.
