The National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) has conducted 42 tests for the coronavirus in South Africa, the results of which have all come back negative.
By Friday, the coronavirus death toll rose to 636 and more than 31 000 infections have been recorded across China, where the virus started, Aljazeera reported.
The virus has since spread to other countries, with at least 25 countries reporting confirmed cases.
READ | Is the coronavirus a pandemic, and does that matter? Four questions answered
However, the NICD confirmed on Friday evening there was no confirmed cases in South Africa.
While 42 tests have been conducted in South Africa, NICD spokesperson Sinenhlanhla Jimoh said the collection and testing of samples from individuals with symptoms was normal and demonstrated effective surveillance of the coronavirus.
"We would like to acknowledge healthcare professionals across the country from the public and private healthcare sectors who have been instrumental in detecting, identifying and responding to possible cases," Jimoh said.
On Thursday, News24 reported two patients in KwaZulu-Natal suspected of being infected with the coronavirus were cleared, with one case being handled at a departmental facility while the other was at a private facility in Durban.
On Wednesday, a patient in Limpopo was cleared after being held in isolation at Ellisras Hospital in Lephalale.
https://t.co/By0KBr5HQV | The endangered pangolin possibly linked to deadly coronavirus spread in China https://t.co/njQB7RIlOB

According to the provincial health department, this had been a precautionary measure after the man developed a high fever and other symptoms consistent with a respiratory disease.
The NICD also cautioned the public against rumours and misinformation concerning the coronavirus
.
Jimoh said the public could access information from the national Department of Health, World Health Organisation and NICD communication platforms.
READ MORE | KZN health MEC lashes out at 'false and irresponsible' reporting on coronavirus
The NICD also gave advice to prevent the spread of the coronavirus by practising hand hygiene, cough etiquette and avoiding contact with animals when in a high-risk country.
The recommendations include:

"The NICD assures the public that systems have been put in place to rapidly identify and detect any imported cases of the 2019-nCoV [coronavirus] in South Africa and that the country is prepared should we have a positive case," Jimoh said.
