Moscow, February 3 - Russian news agency. American doctors described the treatment of the first patient with coronavirus 2019 ncov registered in the United States. This is reported in the New England Journal of medicine.
In Washington state, on January 19, a 35 year old man went to the clinic for treatment, coughing and fever for four days. The patient said that on January 15, he returned from Wuhan, China, to visit his family.
The examination showed that the patient's lung temperature was 37.2 ° C and had hoarseness, but the X-ray did not show any abnormality. Influenza A and B and four common coronavirus strains (hku1, nl63, 229E and OC43) were all negative. Doctors decided to test men 2019 ncov and the results were positive. After that, an American was placed in a separate department of a health center.
During this period, the patient felt nausea and vomiting, and he complained of weakness. He received a supportive treatment that included a physical solution and tonic nausea. On the sixth and seventh days of the disease, men have diarrhea. The virus was found in stool samples as well as in nasal and oral smears.
About The patient prescribed antipyretics and cough medicine.
On the Ninth Night of the disease, X-rays showed pneumonia in the lower left lung. Oxygen saturation dropped to 90% and the patient began to replenish oxygen through the nose. Doctors also appointed the United States' King and princess.
On the tenth day of the disease, X-rays found cloudy streaks in both lungs. This is atypical pneumonia. Hoarseness can be seen during monitoring. Doctors appointed patients to be given an intravenous injection of remervir, while Wang and Princess Xian cancelled.
On the twelfth day of the disease, the patient's condition was improved, and there was no more wheezing, fever, loss of appetite, and oxygen saturation returning to normal. On the 15th day of the disease, men only have a small amount of cough, which is gradually weakened.
At the end of December, Chinese authorities announced an outbreak of pneumonia of unknown origin in Wuhan, Hubei Province. A new type of coronavirus-2019-ncov has become the pathogen of the disease.
According to the latest data, more than 17000 cases of infection have been confirmed worldwide and more than 360 people have died.
The situation in China is the most complex, but the virus has also spread to other countries, including Russia. The World Health Organization recognizes the 2019-ncov emergency as an international emergency
About
The disease is spread by 1-2 meters of air droplets and by contact with the eyes through dirty hands. The main symptoms of the disease are: dry cough, dyspnea, even respiratory failure, temperature rise, weakness. In some cases, the disease does not have pneumonia, only a few dry coughs and hypothermia, but even if the symptoms are mild, the patient may also infect others.
