Tass, February 7. The Ministry of health of Novosibirsk requested a suspension of supply in the context of demand growth due to the discovery of coronavirus in China and the rise in the incidence of ozone depleting substances and influenza in the region Local manufacturers increased the production of medical masks. This is posted on the website of the regional Ministry of health.
Like other cities in Siberia, there is a strong demand for masks in Novosibirsk. According to the Tass news agency, citing the Novosibirsk medical network, citizens have dismantled all mask reserves and replenished them - no such products, no suppliers.
"The Ministry of health is also concerned about the disruption of the supply of medical masks, which are required every day and are also very large for the staff of medical institutions. Therefore, we have asked Novosibirsk Enterprises - to produce protective masks and increase their production, "the report quoted the Minister of health as saying, Novosibirsk Halzov District, Constantine.
According to the Ministry of regional health, the increased demand for masks is related to the outbreak of new coronavirus infections in China, as confirmed by reports quoting hallsov.
About
According to the head of the Ministry of health, there is a regular increase in the demand for masks, because there is news of a coronavirus outbreak in China. However, there is no doubt that in this history, there is also an advantage: Novosibirsk people have evaluated the importance of masks. Today, when the incidence of influenza and ozone depleting substances in the region begins to rise seasonally, More and more people will wear this kind of protective clothing to avoid infecting others when they have the first signs of a cold. "
Russian federation
At the end of December 2019, Chinese authorities recorded the outbreak of 2019 ncov pneumonia virus in Wuhan. In addition to China, the disease has been found in 24 countries, including Russia. Who recognizes the outbreak as an international emergency and describes it as an epidemic with many places. According to the latest data, there are more than 31300 new cases of infection, 636 deaths and more than 150 cases.
 
