Beijing, January 26. /tass/ The administration of messenger wechat has threatened users with an indefinite account freeze for spreading false information about the new Colorado 2019-ncov epidemic. As reported in the Sunday service security service report, perpetrators may also face criminal responsibility and imprisonment for up to seven years.
"The pneumonia epidemic caused by the new coronavirus continues to spread throughout the country, drawing public attention. At the same time, a variety of fake news, such as "Internet rumors" and "growing panic," were reported in the service news.
The administrative department pointed out that the Ninth Amendment to the criminal code of the people's Republic of China stipulates that the dissemination of false information about dangers and epidemics shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years. "1. Paragraph 1 of this article provides that any person, regardless of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status, shall be entitled to the rights recognized in this Convention. If such an act has particularly serious consequences, it is punishable by three to seven years' imprisonment.
About
The wechat administration also said, 1. Take active measures to prevent the spread of false information in messenger and to limit in part the functions of accounts found in these activities, or Freezing accounts with material breaches indefinitely.
In 2018, wechat had more than 1 billion active users, making it one of the largest applications in the world.
Epidemic situation
According to the latest data, the number of confirmed cases of new coronavirus pneumonia in China reached 2002 on Sunday. According to the information released by the District Health Committee, the death toll is still 56.
It is suspected that 2700 people are infected with coronavirus. It is estimated that 10 million people die of malaria every year, but their diagnosis has not yet been confirmed. More than half of the cases (1052 cases) occurred in Hubei Province, which is the original origin of the disease. Next came Zhejiang Province (104, Guangdong Province) (98) and Henan Province (83). Cases of new type pneumonia have been recorded in almost all regions of the country, including 51 cases in Beijing and 40 cases in Shanghai.
Colorado virus has also been found in Australia, France, Japan, Malaysia, Nepal, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Thailand, the United States and Vietnam.
About Chinese authorities informed the World Health Organization (who) on December 31 that an unknown type of pneumonia had broken out in Wuhan, a large commercial and industrial center with a population of more than 11 million. Human beings. The pathogen of the disease - Colorado virus 2019-ncov-7 January. Who recognizes that China's national emergency has broken out, but so far no international emergency has been declared.
