Moscow, 4 February / Sputnik radio. Russians and citizens from other countries who want to leave China's Hubei Province will wait two weeks for quarantine in Qiuming state, In Russia, people infected with the new coronavirus cannot get rid of the strain. Russian Deputy Prime Minister tatijana Golikov told the story.
She explained that the Qiuming area was chosen as the "most prepared area".
"The Qiuming area is home to our citizens and the citizens of the Eurasian Economic Union and the Republic of Ukraine, who will be isolated." What I want to say is to reassure everyone that the citizens flying from Wuhan and Hubei Province are healthy citizens. Our Chinese colleagues are not allowed to release citizens infected with coronavirus from their territory. "
Russian Deputy Prime Minister added that two Russian space planes flew to Wuhan on Tuesday to evacuate Russians and citizens of some CIS countries. As we already know, a ship landed.
The entourage from China will include military doctors and virologists with advanced diagnostic equipment, personal protective equipment and essential drugs.
About
In addition, gorikov pointed out that he felt infected in Russia.
"We have identified two new infections who are wearing light uniforms and are unable to remove the strain from them," Golikov told reporters
At the end of December, Chinese authorities reported an outbreak of pneumonia among unknown people in Hubei Province. A new type of coronavirus-2019-ncov has become the pathogen of the disease. According to the latest data, there are more than 17000 confirmed cases and more than 400 deaths worldwide.
Russian Deputy Prime Minister gorikov announced Thursday that the government decided to close all regular flights of Russian Airlines to China, except those to Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Hong Kong. All flights from China now fly to another airport terminal.
In addition, the Russian railway has completely stopped railway contact with China since February 3.
Radio Sputnik has previously reported that who has not yet classified the prevalence of the coronavirus as an epidemic.
Join our TV channel.
