Moscow, January 18. /tass/ Russia's agricultural watchdog has called on Russian tourists traveling to Southeast Asian countries to avoid contact with animals because of a new form of coronavirus that causes pneumonia. The matter was posted on the Department's website on Saturday.
"It is well known that all sick people visit or work in the food market in Wuhan, where seafood and other animals, including birds, are sold, Rabbits and snakes. In this regard, the presence of this disease is a real risk of an animal disease. That is to say, the source of pathogen, its natural reservoir "is the source of some kind of animal." Such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome. In this regard, the Russian agricultural regulatory agency calls on citizens travelling in Southeast Asian countries to avoid contact with animals, "the report said.
At the same time, according to the Russian Agricultural Supervision Bureau, the source of the pathogen is not clear at present.
On December 31, Chinese authorities reported to the World Health Organization (who) an unknown outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, central China. On January 7, Chinese experts discovered the pathogen of a disease - Colorado virus 2019 ncov
About All cases suspected of new pneumonia were tested. Therefore, pathogens of respiratory diseases such as influenza, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) or known SARS are excluded from the list of possible pathogens. Like SARS and Middle East respiratory syndrome).
According to the latest data, as of January 18, the total number of people infected with new types of pneumonia in China has increased to 45. So far, only two people have died.
Thailand and Japan have reported confirmed cases of coronavirus 2019-ncov infection. In Singapore, the total number of hospitalized patients suspected of new pneumonia is five, but has not yet been confirmed. Who called on countries to carry out strict epidemiological monitoring of the outbreak of new pneumonia.
