Qiuming, February 1. /tass/ On January 31, Chinese female college students who were found to have coronavirus were treated by doctors with mild symptoms of acute respiratory infection in Qiuming. This was reflected in a statement released Saturday by Olga sieutkin, attending physician at the Qiuming state infectious diseases hospital.
The day before, two confirmed cases of infection were found in Russia - Chinese citizens in the post Baikal border region and the Qiuming region.
"The situation of a girl who has been confirmed by coronavirus is currently rated satisfactory. She had a mild acute respiratory infection and she didn't feel bad. To provide all necessary medical assistance, she was supervised by medical staff at the state's clinical infection hospital, "siutkina said.
According to her data, young people who come into contact with students have no symptoms, "On January 28, the students sought help," the Deputy medical director of Evgeni shehminuk hospital added at a briefing on Saturday She was hospitalized as soon as she arrived. [now] [she] feels good. The temperature at the time of the examination was 37.1 degrees, and she] is receiving the necessary treatment. "
About
About preventive measures
Veronica yevremova, President of Qiuming University of technology, told reporters that the teaching buildings and dormitories of a university were hospitalized by a female college student, It's now processed every three hours. There are 49 Chinese students studying in universities.
"[we deal with sanitation facilities] [rooms] are more than usual. If we used to deal with teaching buildings and dormitories three times a day, now the frequency is three hours. All dormitories are monitored by doctors, temperature measurements are taken, and children ask if there are complaints. Nearly 1500 University Students Of the foreign students, 49 are Chinese. "
Of the 49 students, six are on holiday in Qiuming, and five returnees are currently supervised by medical staff, she said. The rest spent their holidays abroad, extended to the beginning of March. Yevlemova pointed out that university students who come to Russia and stay in hospital are studying for the third year of bachelor's degree in the direction of "oil and gas business".
The governor of Qiuming, Alexander Moore, earlier reported that the region had taken all necessary measures to prevent the spread of the disease. All service departments are given the necessary instructions and follow the algorithm. Anna popova, director of Russia's consumer rights protection agency, said two patients diagnosed with coronavirus were easily ill and had no serious clinical symptoms.
About
At the end of December 2019, Chinese authorities recorded an emergency triggered by 2019 ncov pneumonia in Colorado in Wuhan. In addition to China, 23 countries, including Russia, have found the disease. The World Health Organization recognizes that the outbreak of the virus is an international emergency. So far, the number of patients in China has exceeded 11000. 259 people died.
This message has been revised) 14:13 (ISC) - added details.
