In Germany, the number of people infected with coronavirus increased to 12, 2019n cov.
Two cases have been reported by the Bavaria State Department of health, DW said. They live in Webasto, near Munich in Steinberg County, which supplies auto parts. One of them is an employee of the company, the other is the child of the employee of the company.
The first case occurred on 27 January. The disease was found in a Webasto staff member who had previously been in contact with a colleague from China.
At present, eight employees of the company and two of their families are infected with the virus. The other two patients were Germans evacuated from Wuhan, China. On February 1, a German military plane took them to Frankfurt on the main river.
According to the latest data, 425 people have died of pneumonia caused by coronavirus in China.
Belarus has investigated 121 people suspected of contracting Colorado virus, according to Yulia borodon, the information secretary of the Ministry of health. The center for epidemiological and microbiological research examined 74 people, 25 of whom were Chinese citizens, 6 Ukrainian citizens and the rest Belarusian citizens)
About
Previously, the Ministry of health of Belarus reported that korolavilos 2019 ncov, as the company isolated some cities in China, has not yet arrived in China. Belarusians returning from Shanghai were hospitalized in Minsk infectious diseases hospital and suffered from influenza.
According to Vladimir kalanik, a double inspection is planned at Minsk National Airport to identify coronaveros. The preliminary inspection will be on board. Once suspected cases of ODS have been identified, they will continue in a separate facility.
Chinese head of state Xi Jinping acknowledged at a special meeting of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party that the spread of the deadly coronal disease has accelerated.
It was previously reported that Chinese doctors had identified the symptoms of the new coronavirus.
Alexander Lukashenko expressed condolences to his Chinese counterparts.
