Minsk, 5 February/ Bleaching powder According to the United Nations News Center, China's coronal plane emergency is the cause of negative social phenomena, from the proliferation of false information to the humiliation of Asian appearance.
The World Health Organization is taking necessary measures to stop the prevalence of "false information about coronavirus outbreaks" in social networks. On behalf of Sylvia brayand, who briefed reporters in Geneva on the dangers of the rumors. " For example, some people think that the virus can be infected from some clouds. Of course, we are trying to eliminate this groundless rumor. -The virus is transmitted by air and water droplets. To be infected, close contact with the patient is necessary. "
She said people with weak immune systems - the elderly and patients with various chronic diseases - are at the greatest risk. Now, as who has stressed, experts are looking at death cases to determine which diseases first worsen people's health, One was infected with coronavirus.
With regard to the mutation of the virus, so far, scientists have no evidence that significant changes have taken place. As a preventive measure, who continues to recommend more frequent hand washing and face shield contact with patients.
About
The day before yesterday, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres expressed concern about reports of discrimination against Chinese people, With the fear of infection. On February 4, he made a statement at a press conference in New York, calling on the international community to support China, which is in such difficult conditions, and other countries to do the same. Where are the reported cases of infection.
According to the latest data, the number of people infected in China has exceeded 24000. 490 people died of illness. More than 170 cases have been confirmed in other countries.
Coronavirus is a family of more than 30 viruses, initially discovered in 1965. Coronavirus affects people, livestock, pigs, cattle and birds, and can cause damage to respiratory system, gastrointestinal tract and nervous system.
