Minsk / Korr, 29 January Bleaching powder Chinese molecular biology researchers have found that an antibody found during SARS in 2003 can eliminate the virus, This is the current outbreak of pneumonia in China and some other countries. Tass reported that this was mentioned in an article published by the biorxiv Electronic Science Library.
"The antigen cr3022 neutralizes SARS virus and actively adds 2019 ncov virus. However, it should be noted that the stronger antibodies m396 and cr3014 did not react to the virus, indicating a unique protein structure through which new pathogens infect human cells, By the researchers.
According to scholars from Wuhan Institute of Virology and Fudan University in Shanghai, this discovery gives people reason to believe that cr3022 of the substance combines with other antibodies, A country that can combine with the new coronavirus will soon be able to create the first effective means to treat this form of pneumonia and stop the epidemic.
Meanwhile, Zhong Nanshan, an expert on respiratory diseases in China, told Xinhua, The outbreak of a new coronavirus may peak in the next week or 10 days, after which there will be no significant increase in the number of patients
About
Experts pointed out that there are two ways to combat AIDS: early detection and early isolation. He said the heat wave is still a typical symptom of new coronavirus.
Chinese authorities informed the World Health Organization on December 31 about the outbreak of unknown pneumonia in Wuhan. Human beings. On January 7, Chinese experts discovered Colorado virus 2019 ncov.
At present, there are more than 5.9 million confirmed cases in China. The death toll was 132. Cases are registered in almost all parts of China, including Beijing and Shanghai.
Corona viruses have also been found in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, the Republic of Korea, Nepal, Singapore, the United Arab Emirates, Thailand, the United States and Vietnam. The World Health Organization is aware of the outbreak of pneumonia in China's national emergency, But so far, I have not announced an international emergency system.
