Tass, 26 January. The Border Service in the blagoveshinsk region of Amur state, which borders China, will return Chinese citizens to the Republic in case of suspicion of new diseases A coronavirus. The regional government information service reported on Sunday.
Customs and airport of blagoveshinsk) carry out close inspection at the crossing point, and the staff are equipped with thermometers. The blagoveshinsk customs will conduct double checks: experts will first assess the condition of the personnel on each new bus and then at the border crossing. "Chinese citizens will return to Heihe after being suspected of infection, while Russians plan to place them in isolation centers and then be hospitalized in the boxing section of the infected hospital." The news said.
It is understood that since the beginning of the year, more than 70000 people have been inspected at the health and quarantine station. More than 9000 Chinese citizens have entered the country and some 4000 tourists have returned from Southeast Asian countries and China. After visiting China, five people were found to have coronavirus infection and three were not confirmed. The results of the other two projects will be published soon.
"A high level of alert has been put in place and the approved work plan is being implemented."
About All municipalities and departments have been advised and instructed. The main measure today is not to go to China. It is reported that tour operators in the region have suspended sending tour groups to Chinese sanatoriums. It also recommends that citizens not visit southeast Asian countries such as Thailand and Vietnam.
On December 31, 2019, Chinese authorities informed the World Health Organization (who) that an unknown type of pneumonia had broken out in Wuhan, a commercial and industrial center with a large population. More than 11 million people The pathogen of the disease - Colorado virus 2019-ncov-7 January. Colorado virus 2019-ncov has also been found in Japan, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, the United States and Vietnam.
At present, there are 2027 confirmed cases and 57 deaths in China.
 
