Yesterday
Picture of the day. January 30th
President Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus discussed personnel issues. The head of state appointed the director of the general office of the president of Belarus and Valerie Bielski as the deputy director of the general office of the president.
The president's office will strengthen its expert analysis of government activities. Valery Belski (Valery Belski) reported that during his appointment, he had been appointed deputy director of the general office of the president of Belarus.
President Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus looks forward to a real breakthrough in the relations between Belarus and China. He pointed out this when he appointed Nicolas snopkov, the Belarusian ambassador to China, who is now deputy director of the president's general office. Nikolai snopkov announced that economic cooperation between Belarus and China will be further strengthened.
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko looks forward to strengthening the competitiveness of key national enterprises. He said, Agree to appoint alexeri mashevski, chief engineer of production preparation of Minsk wheel tractor factory as general manager This enterprise
About
Major general Ivan podgursky was removed from his post as the first deputy minister of the interior and chief of the criminal police. President Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus signed the decree.
President Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus met with Natalia kochanova, chairman of the Republic Committee of the national assembly, Igor sergeyenko, President's chief of staff, and Victor Sherman, President's chief of staff. The first concern of the head of state is personnel issues, and the work of state organs in dealing with current and future issues. The need for concerted action in the work of national institutions to ensure continuity was stressed, especially in the light of recent appointments.
A delegation from the Belarus Petrochemical Group will visit Kazakhstan next week for substantive negotiations on oil supply. This agreement was reached at a meeting between the Prime Minister of Belarus, Sergei rumas, and the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, Askar maming, in Almaty. Belarus is one of the advanced countries in the field of it, said Askar maming, Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
Belarus Automobile Holding Company is "preparing to implement infrastructure projects in Moldova" and will soon make relevant suggestions to the government.
About This was announced by the Prime Minister of Belarus, Sergei rumas, during a meeting with the Prime Minister of Moldova, Jan Kiku.
Tariffs on Russian oil and oil products in transit through Belarus will rise by more than 6 per cent from 1 February. That's what Vladimir kortovic, the Minister of antitrust and trade, said.
Stanislav ZAS, the new secretary general of the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), takes office on January 1, 2020, and intends to visit all CSTO countries soon. Anatoly sidorov, joint chief of staff of the collective security treaty organization, announced the situation in Moscow. The CSTO peacekeeping forces stand ready to carry out their tasks in any part of the world. The CSTO crisis response centre has begun to function normally. The territory of Belarus will be used for exercises of the collective security treaty organization in 2020.
A new program of the alliance countries, integrating the National Academy of Sciences "will be committed to the large-scale development of space and the development of new satellites, Announced by Alexei kubrin, deputy secretary of state of the alliance countries.
The Belarusian Ministry of Defense announced that the plane carrying Belarusian humanitarian assistance landed at Beijing airport. The goods were accompanied by the Belarusian rescue workers and the first deputy minister of emergency situations, Alexander hudolev
About
The Ministry of health has been following the new canavera incident. By then, 121 people had been examined by Belarusian medical personnel and 2019-ncov had not been found.
The comprehensive measures for the development of the national innovation system in 2020 shall be approved by the Resolution No. 53 of the Council of Ministers on January 29, 2020.
The Council of the house of Representatives decided to establish a working group within the national assembly to study the abolition of the death penalty. The group is chaired by Gennady davidyko, chairman of the house standing committee on human rights, ethnic relations and media.
Interview: good neighborly partnership with Belarus is very important for Poland
Belarus plans to expand the supply of wood processing products to Romania.
The Minsk national airport development concept will soon be approved. This is what Alexei aframenko, Minister of transport and communications, said before the start of the last sectoral Committee. According to the minister, it is impossible to open air services between regional airports. Pilot training in Belarus will begin by 2022. The reconstruction of the Minsk Vilnius M7 road will begin in the summer, Alexei aframenko said.
The rate of real estate tax and land tax in Minsk fell to 2 from 2.5 on January 1 this year
About
According to the Belarusian Ministry of defence, the armed forces of the Republic of Belarus have begun a surprise attack inspection.
It will help to eliminate formalism in the work by canceling the evaluation of investigation function based on statistical indicators. Ivan noskevic, chairman of the Commission of inquiry, expressed this view.
Comment: Irina kostyjevich: how to compare wages in December and January
According to the company, its postal services were provided during Iraq's invasion and occupation of Kuwait.
Climate change in Belarus, the 10-year average temperature increased by 0.5 degrees. The risk of extreme weather events is increasing. Professor Sergei Lysenko, Ph.D., director of the Institute of natural resource management of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus, announced this at a round table of the belta Information Centre. Climate change has increased the number of agricultural pests.
Supermarkets in Belarus began to reject plastic bags.
Pinsk took over the relay race of Belarus youth capital Olympic Games.
Winners are people in accessible environments
Igor olemeco was elected new chairman of the Central Committee of the Belarusian Sports Association. "
Basketball players beat Nick in the first quarter final of ewbl
About
The World Health Organization (who)) acknowledged the international emergency caused by the outbreak of the coronavirus 2019-ncov in China.
The European Parliament approved by a majority the agreement on brexit from the European Union.
Today
Statement as at 31 January
The full text of the statement can be obtained by subscribing to the daily "beluga" and weekly "beluga" posters. For subscription, please contact Tel. / (fax:)) 017 327-78-77, e-mail: reklama@belta.by, and contact the information and reference of the chief editor. （017）327-24-87。
The National Information Center will hold a press conference tour at 12:30 to introduce the new baiergos circus plan. " Fantasy park. "
Press conference will be held in the press center of press house to coordinate with the 26th Minsk International Fair, the theme of which is: "small and medium-sized enterprises in the developing world Belarusian rapper. "
Tomorrow
Important day of February 1
100 years ago, luzkin Alexei andreyevich was born in zagorotya - upper Vitebsk state of tolochinski, a hero of the Soviet Union) In the Great Patriotic War, Lieutenant luzkin, the leader of the reconnaissance aviation corps, carried out 106 armed flights and 32 air battles. According to his information, Soviet bombers destroyed 320 enemy aircraft at Poltava airport and field sites
About Served in the Soviet army before 1960, Colonel. Died in 1977.
Isayev was born in Russia 65 years ago, a Belarusian singer and Belarusian actor) - 1997. Solo (interrupted) since 1991, director of the Belarusian national music theatre since 2001. Among the party: Mr. X, Edwin: "circus princess,"
Please call (917) 327-78-77, fax: (212) 963-9684, fax: (212) 963-9196. (e-mail): reklama@belta.by, editor in chief of standardization organization. （017）327-24-87。
Beta.
