Tass news agency, January 27. The operation command of situation monitoring in koronavelos was established in the Khabarovsk border area with the participation of experts from various departments. Website of the regional government.
"While steps have been taken, we need to provide more barriers for those who are infected. This will be the responsibility of operational headquarters, which will review all updates on the issue and take urgent action. By the end of Monday, the headquarters must be set up and begin work, "said Sergei fulgara, governor of the Khabarovsk border region, in a letter.
It is clear that the combatant command will include experts from the veterinary supervision agency of the Russian Federation, The border administration of the Russian Federal Security Service in the Khabarovsk border area and the Russian federal security service and other monitoring agencies.
According to the information of the administrative department, the authorities plan to add quarantine stations on the long-distance lines in the Khabarovsk border area, More careful inspection of food imports produced in China. In addition, consideration is being given to extending the opening time of the "protected areas" currently closed for the Chinese new year to 29 January.
About
In the region, security measures continue to be strengthened with the emergence of new types of pneumonia in neighbouring countries. Double check of passengers at airports and border crossings. All hospitals and clinics are on high alert and have new patient reception rules in place for them. Local residents' health doctors advise not to go to China, and those who go to China should abide by the highest health standards.
Khabarovsk tourists exit from Hainan
Valentina asheev, a representative of the Far East Tourism Association, explained that most of the tourists came from the Khabarovsk border area and spent their holidays in Hainan, They will be on a special flight this week.
Tourism manager Ross tourism "announced its intention to move its customers away from China island ahead of time after the outbreak of coronal airlines. The flight from Khabarovsk to Hainan is twice a week.
At present, there are about 180 tourists from the Khabarovsk border area who plan to leave on January 29. According to preliminary data, this will help to take everyone away. Some will have to suspend their leave and they will solve the problem of unused compensation for travel days. "
About
According to the Tass news agency of the Tourism Committee of the Ministry of culture of the Khabarovsk border area, the planned tourism from Khabarovsk to Hainan on January 26 has been cancelled, Travel companies are now working with people to recover the money they spend, or to reschedule or change direction. According to the current coronation situation, China has given up tourism on the track.
Rostov on Friday On January 24, as the health and life of Russian tourists with the new corona brand appeared in China were threatened, it was suggested that tourism operators suspend the sale of tourism commodities to China Stable epidemiological situation. Russia's largest tourism operator has announced a moratorium on tourism sales.
The 2019 - ncov pneumonia caused by corona broke out in Wuhan, a big city of China, at the end of December last year. Now there are more than 2.7 million confirmed cases in China. The death toll was 80. Cases have been reported in almost all parts of China, including Beijing and Shanghai. The Colorado virus has also been found in Australia, France, Japan, Malaysia, Nepal, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Thailand, the United States and Vietnam.
About The World Health Organization is aware of the outbreak of pneumonia in China's national emergency, But so far, I have not declared an international emergency.
