Tass news agency, on January 28, Greek geneticists studied the genome devices of the new coronavirus that caused pneumonia in China and other countries, and found no evidence, This may be due to gene exchange with another virus, as Chinese researchers have pointed out before. This point is discussed in an article published by biorxiv Electronic Science Library.
"Our study refutes the assumption that the 2019-ncov virus was generated as a result of a recent recombination. In particular, about half of its genome, including the coding part of the spines on its shell, is responsible for entering human cells, This is a unique new coronavirus line, unlike other SARS related pathogens, the scientists wrote.
The first analysis of the DNA structure of the new Colorado virus that broke out in China last December showed that, The cause of the disease is a recombination of the so-called ratg13 virus, which affects bats and some unknown coronaviruses.
Using the term, scientists refer to two viruses that infect the same body at the same time, which in some cases leads to the exchange of DNA or RNA. For example, coronavirus, the coding of some parts of its genes.
About In the case of the 2019 ncov virus, Chinese geneticists believe that the exchange of this genetic material enables it to spread from humans to humans, And other unique features.
Molecular biologists at the University of Athens were skeptical, comparing mutations in the 2019 ncov and ratg13 genomes. On the one hand, this analysis confirmed that the new virus is indeed closely related to the pathogens of bats living in Yunnan Province. But in doing so, he found some unique features in RNA viral devices that do not conform to the recent composite theory.
In particular, scientists have found no evidence that the 2019 ncov gene is a mosaic of RNA fragments of various viruses, and have found some unique shortcomings, Its structure is different from that of other SARS viruses in 2003, At the same time, attack bats. How these sequences appear in 2019 ncov RNA is unknown to scientists, but their presence clearly suggests that viruses cannot be produced by recombination.
