In the course of the day, the yield pressure increased with the poorly launched US stock exchanges. For the MDax, too, almost one percent on 28.480,53 counters went downhill in the tug of the big index brother.
From the point of view of the Stock Exchange, the Dax has been on a consolidation course since its record high on Wednesday morning. "Now the Causa Coronavirus provides investors with additional sales arguments," argued market expert Andreas Lipkow of Comdirect Bank. Investors are concerned about the economic consequences of lung disease for growth in China and thus also in other parts of the world.
In an unprecedented move on Thursday, China shelled several major cities from the outside world, including the 11-million capital city of Wuhan, which was particularly badly affected by the disease. Flights, trains, ferries, long-distance buses and public transport have been stopped and the roads have gradually been blocked.
In New York on Thursday added as a burden that the business reporting season that was to be toured there had more shadow than light to offer. The European Central Bank (ECB) interest rate decision with an announced revision of the monetary policy strategy was not considered as a price driver in the stock market.
Among the individual values, Infineon was associated with a generally positive industry trend in chip values. In the shadow of happy business figures from STMicroelectronics, the chip group blended with a plus of 0.8 percent among the few winners in the German leading index Dax. The competitor's papers were even up by more than six percent in Paris.
On Thursday it went even better, especially for the shareholders of Wirecard with an increase of 4.2 percent. The consideration of the payment service provider to increase its management bodies
Yeah.
At the bottom of the Dax were the papers of the Continental car supplier, which dropped by three,4 percent after a rating by the US bank Citigroup. In the MDax, the planned exit of the Australian subsidiary Cimic from the Middle East business resulted in a loss of earnings for investors of the construction group Hochtief, which was less than eight percent. The stock was thus the end result in the index of medium-sized values.
The second largest MDax loser was Nemetschek's paper due to a critical study by Baader Bank, although they were able to reduce their discount from almost eight percent at the top to almost five percent at the end. According to analyst Knut Woller, the software developer specialised in the construction industry is expected to pay tribute to a weaker market environment in the future.
The Eurozone guideline EuroStoxx 50 fell by 0,87 per cent on 3736,85 points. In Paris and London, the guideline indices lost 0.65 and 0.85 percent respectively. In New York, the Dow Jones Industrial was the European trading hub with about half a percentage in the red sector.
German bond prices rose. The circulation rate fell to less than 0.28 per cent the day before. The Rex pension index added 0.12 percent to 144,14 points. The Federal Future advanced by 0,38 percent to 173,02 points.
After the ECB's interest rate decision, the euro gave way significantly. Recently, the Community currency was traded with 11041 US dollars at the lowest level since early December. The ECB had previously set the reference rate significantly higher with 11091 (Wednesday: 11088) dollars. The dollar thus cost 09016 (09019) euro. (dpa)
