The Chinese Government has effectively sealed off the millions of metropolises in Wuhan, which are particularly affected by the new lung disease. As the Chinese state television reported, flights, trains, ferries and long-distance buses should be stopped starting Thursday morning.
Residents of Wuhans are therefore only allowed to leave the Central Chinese city for special reasons. Around eleven million people live in the city where the novel Coronavirus had probably broken out in an animal market.
In addition, people were asked to go public only with protective masks. Those who do not wear masks in hotels, restaurants, shopping centers or parks will be punished, the newspaper China Daily reported. Wuhan is particularly affected by the disease. However, the virus has now spread to a large part of China and also beyond national borders. The disease had already been detected in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and the USA.
As more and more people with flu symptoms are being tested for the new virus, the number of confirmed cases continues to increase. By Thursday, the virus was detected in 571 people, as reported by the Chinese health authority. Below are therefore 95 serious cases, all of which lie in the province of Hubei with the particularly badly affected metropolis of Wuhan.
The World Health Organisation (WHO), despite the rapid increase in proven infections with the new virus, did not, for the time being, declare a "health emergency of international importance". The emergency committee, which advises the WHO, saw no reason for this on Wednesday, but wanted to meet again on Thursday. The Emergency Committee recommended further improving the exchange of information between States, as Chairman Didier Houssin said. However, the members of the Emergency Committee did not agree on the assessment of the situation.
Yeah.
An official'emergency'would have been accompanied by further concrete recommendations to States in order to contain the spread across borders as far as possible. Such recommendations may include, for example, examining travellers for disease symptoms and improving the protection of medical staff.
There was no evidence in Europe until Wednesday. According to the Federal Government, people in Germany have a "very low" health risk. There is no reason to be alarmed now, said a spokesman for Health Minister Jens Spahn (CDU). The EU Prevention Authority ECDC spoke of a moderate risk of the organism being introduced into the European Union. It was still unclear how serious and fatal the disease was, said ECDC Director Andrea Ammon.
It is believed that the source of the Coronavirus was a wild animal in a fish market in Wuhan. According to expert opinion, it was first transferred from animal to human before the virus adapted to its new host and there was transmission between humans. With the wave of travel to the Chinese New Year's Eve next Saturday, the risk of viral disease spreading is growing. At the largest annual wave of travel in the country, several hundred million Chinese are on the move.
The new virus belongs to the same species as the one that triggered the Sars pandemic. At that time, about 800-people were killed by it. The new virus is supposed to be a more harmless variant as it stands. Sars viruses are one of the Coronaviruses that often cause harmless diseases such as colds. However, it also includes agents of dangerous respiratory diseases such as Mers. A pandemic is a cross-country and continental spread of an infectious disease. (dpa)
