Despite the rapid spread of the Coronavirus, Tokyo's Olympic players are holding on to the summer games and are resisting rumours of a possible rejection.
"We never discussed cancelling the games," the organizing committee in Tokyo said in a statement on Friday. There had been rumors on the Internet before. It continued to cooperate with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and relevant organisations and, if necessary, to review countermeasures. "Preparations for Tokyo 2020 continue as planned," the IOC also said.
Summer games will be held at 24. Open in July and up to nine. Take August. Then follow from the 25th. August to 6th. September the Paralympics in Tokyo.
In the meantime, Japan has stepped up its efforts to prevent the spread of the disease in its own country. By Friday, the number of confirmed cases of the new pathogen in Japan fell to 17. However, in most cases the infections occurred in China. The Tokyo Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a travel warning for the whole of China on Friday and called on its own people to refrain from any unnecessary visits to China.
An even higher level of warning applies to the Chinese province of Hubei, with the capital Wuhan, where the pathogen had broken out. Here the Japanese are advised against all travel. Meanwhile, Japan flew back more of its compatriots from Wuhan on Friday. Tokyo's Governor Yuriko Koike said two days ago:'We must take a vigorous approach to the new Coronavirus to contain it or we will regret it'.
"The IOC is in contact with the World Health Organisation WHO and its own experts," the IOC told the German Press Agency
Yeah. "Anti-infectious disease measures are an important part of the plans for Tokyo 2020 to provide safe games." The Organising Committee will continue to work with all relevant organisations that monitor infectious cases and, where appropriate, take the necessary counter-measures.
Because of the Coronavirus, Olympic qualification tournaments of soccer players, basketball players and boxers have already been moved from China. Other sporting events such as the planned ski World Cup races were cancelled, the Chinese Football League postponed its season start. (dpa)
