For the first time since the outbreak of the Coronavirus, a person outside China has died as a result of a new respiratory disease. Like the
The World Health Organization (WHO) announced on Sunday that
Philippines is a Chinese from Wuhan, where the Coronavirus first appeared in humans in December. Since then, it has spread to nearly thirty countries.
"This is the first reported
Death outside China,"said WHO representative Rabindra Abeyasinghe in
Manila! He added, however, that it should be borne in mind that the man did not
the Philippines.
The deceased is a 44-year-old male on 25th. In January, the Philippine Ministry of Health announced that he had arrived at the hospital with fever, cough and sore throat. Later, the man was suffering from pneumonia. However, he was in stable condition and signs of recovery
It went on. Surprisingly, the
his condition in the last 24 hours then again
He died in a hospital in Manila.
At the end of 2019, the Chinese authorities reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) a frequency of pneumonia of unclear cause in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. Already a week later, Chinese researchers identified a novel virus as the cause of the disease. It belongs to the group of Coronavires. A few days later, a group around the virologist Christian Drosten of the Berlin Charite published the first diagnostic test for the new virus, which researchers provisionally call 2019-nCoV. The test can be used to detect the virus in the laboratory. As a source of the pathogen, the Chinese authorities suspect a food market in Wuhan, where, in addition to fish and seafood, exotic animals such as snakes were sold. The market was closed and disinfected
Yeah.
Both the respiratory diseases Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and Mers (Middle East respiratory syndrome) are caused by coronary viruses that originate in animals. During the Sars pandemic, in the years 2002 and 2003, about 8.000 people died, more than 750. The Mers virus has infected people from its discovery 2012 to the end of the year 2019 about 2.500, and every third person has died from it. Overall, however, there are several hundred types of coronavirus. Many of them affect the airways and can cause, for example, colds.
In China, several thousand people are now ill, some of them, most likely pre-infected, have died of pneumonia caused by the virus. The first infections outside China were known in Thailand, Japan and South Korea. These are travellers who had previously been to Wuhan. I have 21. In January, US authorities reported the first infection in a tourist who returned from Wuhan on the 24th. In January, the first cases in France became known. In the meantime, the first cases in Germany have also been confirmed. Typical signs of infection are fever, cough and difficulty breathing. The virus can cause pneumonia that can end in death. Because it's a viral disease, antibiotics don't help.
It is now clear that the virus can be transmitted from human to human. The Chinese authorities have confirmed several such transmissions after about a dozen medical personnel have been notified. Doctors assume that the virus is mainly transmitted via droplet infection. The World Health Organization, like it does on 24th. January, currently reporting that an infected person in sections 1,4 to 2,5 infects other people. If these numbers persist, the virus is less contagious than sars and also the virus flu
The WHO recommends general hygiene rules: wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people with respiratory diseases and wild animals.
There's no way to say for sure yet. The World Health Organization shared on 28. In January, approximately one fifth of the reported cases are seriously affected by the virus, so in case of doubt intensive medical treatment is required. According to reports, the first victims were patients who had some severe pre-existing diseases. Other infectious diseases also pose a particular risk to people with pre-existing diseases, such as influenza. Coronaviruses are known to mutate, so they can change their heritage. This may lead to them becoming more dangerous to humans during an outbreak, but also to the exact opposite. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) does not currently expect a mortality rate similar to that of the Sars outbreak.
Like the Philippine
Health Minister Francisco Duque said the man had traveled to the country alongside a Chinese woman who had also tested positive for the virus. The woman rests
currently in hospital from the infection.
Shortly before the death, the Philippine government had closed the country's border to all foreign immigrants from China. Other countries, including Australia and the USA, have imposed similar entry bans.
In the People's Republic, the number of infected and fatalities is increasing despite massive security measures. After
Authorities have so far reported that 304 patients have died from the virus in China. More than 14.300 people have been infected in the country. Nine cases are known in Germany. Spain also reported that a German tourist was infected by the Coronavirus
Yeah. A passenger on board a German military machine with which more than 100 Germans had returned from the Chinese city of Wuhan on Saturday is suspected of carrying the virus.
Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province, is considered to be the center of the expansion and is under quarantine. It is currently believed that the virus of wild animals was transmitted to humans in a market. Because of the rapid spread of the virus, for the first time a city outside the province of Hubei has severely restricted the freedom of movement of its inhabitants. In the nine-million-inhabitant metropolis of Wenzhou on the east coast of China, only one person per household is allowed to go on the street every two days to buy the most necessary for life, local authorities said. The city also closed 46 motorway toll stations.
The Chinese government also called on the weekend to postpone weddings and to hold mourning parties in a small framework. Travel in China, however, increased again, because on Monday the New Year holidays extended due to the virus end.
