What can the individual do in view of the outbreak of the new Coronavirus? How do we arm ourselves in case the lung infection from China also becomes an epidemic in Europe? The head of the UK Wellcome Trust, the world's second largest medical research foundation, tweeted a few days ago:'One thing that would help is to get flu shots.'
At first, it seems strange. Because a flu shot does not protect against an infection with the virus called 2019-nCoV, which has spread from the city of Wuhan since the turn of the year in China and across national borders. In some cases it has already been smuggled into Europe. In Germany, too, a person has become infected with the pathogen.
The idea behind Jeremy Farrar's call for flu vaccination was another: Because the symptoms of a real flu (see box) and the lung disease caused by the corona virus may be similar at first, flu patients would quickly become suspected cases of corona in case of doubt. With all the consequences that would have. They would also have to be isolated and tested for the pathogen that infected them. Last but not least, those affected would be put into fear and terror. In this respect, flu-prevention vaccinations could alleviate the pressure on the health system that the new pathogen could bring about should it also lead to an epidemic in us. In short, the milder the flu season, the fewer additional problems pests would have.
The flu caused by the flu virus usually starts suddenly with fever, dry irritation, muscle and/or headache. Other symptoms may include general weakness, sweating, but also nausea/vomiting and diarrhoea. The duration of the illness is usually five to seven days
Yeah.
The current flu situation in Germany can be seen on the website of the Working Group Influenza.
By far, not all flu-infected people are so typical. Depending on the severity of the flu season, several hundred to more than 20.000 people die each year from a flu (source: Robert Koch Institute)
Infection is mainly caused by droplets such as coughing or sneezing. They reach the mucous membranes of the respiratory tract of healthy people over a short distance. In addition, transmission is also possible over hands and surfaces contaminated by virus-containing secretions.
The Standing Vaccine Commission (STIKO) of the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) recommends the prevention of influenza for all persons from 60 years, all pregnant women, persons with increased health risks (e.g. persons with chronic diseases of the respiratory organs, heart or circulatory diseases, liver or kidney diseases, diabetes or other Metabolic diseases, multiple sclerosis, inborn or acquired immunodeficiency) as well as for residents of nursing homes.
In addition, persons at increased risk (e.g. medical personnel) and persons who may infect their carers should be vaccinated. People with direct contact with poultry and wild birds should also be vaccinated (although vaccination does not protect against avian influenza, it avoids problematic double infections).
Similarly, the Robert Koch Institut e (RKI), even though its president Lothar Wieler limited the recommendation to be vaccinated against influenza to special risk groups at a press conference with Health Minister Jens Spahn (CDU) on Tuesday. Those for whom the Standing Vaccine Commission (Stiko) of his institute recommends a flu vaccination anyway, should now also take care of it, he said.
Yeah.
This means people from sixty years old, pregnant, chronically ill, and also employees and residents of old or nursing homes, as well as people with a high risk of becoming infected with influenza, such as medical personnel or people in institutions with a high level of public transport.
The RKI receives support from politicians." Influenza vaccination always makes sense, and this is only right now,"said EU Vice-President responsible for health policy Georg Nutlein (CSU) in a conversation with ZEIT ONLINE. The experts themselves would have to decide whether to extend their vaccination recommendations to all citizens.
"We currently have no grounds for coercion or intervention of any kind. There is no need to panic,"stressed Nutlein. In particular, however, domestic doctors should now focus more on the protection of flu. This also serves the safety and well-being of the people,"said Knesslein.
At the end of 2019, the Chinese authorities reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) a frequency of pneumonia of unclear cause in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. Already a week later, Chinese researchers identified a novel virus as the cause of the disease. It belongs to the group of Coronavires. A few days later, a group around the virologist Christian Drosten of the Berlin Charite published the first diagnostic test for the new virus, which researchers provisionally call 2019-nCoV. The test can be used to detect the virus in the laboratory. As a source of the pathogen, the Chinese authorities suspect a food market in Wuhan, where, in addition to fish and seafood, exotic animals such as snakes were sold. The market was closed and disinfected
Yeah.
Both the respiratory diseases Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and Mers (Middle East respiratory syndrome) are caused by coronary viruses that originate in animals. During the Sars pandemic, in the years 2002 and 2003, about 8.000 people died, more than 750. The Mers virus has infected people from its discovery 2012 to the end of the year 2019 about 2.500, and every third person has died from it. Overall, however, there are several hundred types of coronavirus. Many of them affect the airways and can cause, for example, colds.
In China, several thousand people are now ill, some of them, most likely pre-infected, have died of pneumonia caused by the virus. The first infections outside China were known in Thailand, Japan and South Korea. These are travellers who had previously been to Wuhan. I have 21. In January, US authorities reported the first infection in a tourist who returned from Wuhan on the 24th. In January, the first cases in France became known. In the meantime, the first cases in Germany have also been confirmed. Typical signs of infection are fever, cough and difficulty breathing. The virus can cause pneumonia that can end in death. Because it's a viral disease, antibiotics don't help.
It is now clear that the virus can be transmitted from human to human. The Chinese authorities have confirmed several such transmissions after about a dozen medical personnel have been notified. Doctors assume that the virus is mainly transmitted via droplet infection. The World Health Organization, like it does on 24th. January, currently reporting that an infected person in sections 1,4 to 2,5 infects other people. If these numbers persist, the virus is less contagious than sars and also the virus flu
The WHO recommends general hygiene rules: wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people with respiratory diseases and wild animals.
There's no way to say for sure yet. The World Health Organization shared on 28. In January, approximately one fifth of the reported cases are seriously affected by the virus, so in case of doubt intensive medical treatment is required. According to reports, the first victims were patients who had some severe pre-existing diseases. Other infectious diseases also pose a particular risk to people with pre-existing diseases, such as influenza. Coronaviruses are known to mutate, so they can change their heritage. This may lead to them becoming more dangerous to humans during an outbreak, but also to the exact opposite. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) does not currently expect a mortality rate similar to that of the Sars outbreak.
Similarly, his SPD colleague, from the Group of the European People's Party, Barbel Bas. A flu shot makes sense. In my view, more people should vaccinate themselves,"she said TIME ONLINE. However, the politician sees no reason to extend the influenza vaccination recommendation. The effort to test a person suspected of having a coronavirus infection is understandable: "If symptoms of an infection with the coronavirus are present and the person concerned has been in a risk area in China for the last 14 days or has had contact with a sick person, then this person will be tested for the corona virus in accordance with hygienic measures such as mouth-nose protection,"Bas said.
A test will then deliver a result in a few hours and will also be available in Germany
Yeah. The test could also be performed by people who were in the Chinese province of Hubei, from whose capital Wuhan had spread further in January, or who had contact with a proven infected person, even if they had no symptoms yet.
Generally, according to doctors, the best time to get vaccinated is October or November, so before the flu season starts. But even now, vaccination could still be useful, stressed RKI President Wieler. The time after the change of year is generally considered to be the one in which there are particularly many flu infections. However, it will take ten to 14 days for the vaccine to take effect.
Of course, people who are not at risk can also be vaccinated. Many health insurance funds, including the three largest, namely Technischer Krankenkasse (TK), Deutsche Employees Krankenkasse (DAK) and the Barmer Ersatzkasse (BEK), cover the costs for all insured persons who so wish.
In healthy young people, vaccination reduces the risk of influenza by 80 percent, in elderly people who are particularly recommended for vaccination due to the statistically higher mortality risk due to the infection, it is still 41 to 63 percent. According to researchers at the RKI, despite moderate vaccination rates, the vaccines prevent the 400.000 flu disease annually only in over 60-year-olds. Depending on the severity of the flu season and the type of pathogen that changes every year, which is why the vaccine has to be constantly developed and re-administered annually, people die of flu between a few hundred and more than 20.000 per year. 2017/18 were even 25.100
Yeah.
For those who want to protect themselves and others from an infection, RKI Vice-President Lars also has some practical tips besides vaccinations: sneeze in the elbows, often wash your hands, keep your distance from people who are cold." This protects against influenza and also applies if we get more cases of the new Coronavirus in Germany."
Read more about the new Coronavirus here.
