The Chinese Politburo met at a crisis meeting to discuss the spread of the new Coronavirus. The meeting was chaired by Xi Jinping, Head of State and Party. According to state television, the party's central power has decided to set up a working group to deal with the new lung disease." We are sure that we can defeat the epidemic through prevention and control,"Xi told the Chinese state media, as the New York Times writes.
With this approach, the party leadership demonstrates the importance it attaches to the fight against the spread of 2019-nCoV. The virus has now spread to almost all regions of the country with the exception of Tibet. According to the latest information, more than 1.300 cases have been confirmed in China, 41 people have died. However, according to London scientists, the number of people affected in Wuhan alone, where the virus first broke out, may now be more than 4.000.
China has also intensified its efforts to contain the virus in the region around Wuhan. Recently, bus, rail and air connections between the area and several million cities were cut off. In Wuhan, private car traffic is now also stopped in the city centre. As the state media reported, only cars with special approval should be allowed to drive, for example, for the transport of supplies. In different neighborhoods 6.000 taxis are used to transport residents if necessary, the newspaper China Daily wrote.
For the Chinese New Year celebration, the state has sealed off five more cities in the region. They too have been exposed to public transport. Highways were also blocked. Meanwhile, 56 million people have been cut off from the rest of the country. Group travel is prohibited nationwide from Monday, including for trips abroad
Yeah. Exceptions to travel bans shall apply only to medical staff. Millions of Chinese usually travel around the country around New Year's Eve to visit their families.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) has supported the measure. In addition, the authorities have started building an emergency clinic in Wuhan, which covers 1.000 beds and up to three. In February it will be completed. The construction of another clinic with 1.300 beds to be built within 14 days has also been announced.
The doctors in Wuhan receive help: On Friday the government sent 450-military medics to the city, some of whom already have experience in operations against the SARS epidemic and Ebola. A 62-year-old hospital doctor has since died of the virus. Foreign manufacturers of respiratory masks and protective clothing have been asked for further deliveries to Wuhan, where stocks are very scarce, one government representative said.
At the end of 2019, the Chinese authorities reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) a frequency of pneumonia of unclear cause in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. Already a week later, Chinese researchers identified a novel virus as the cause of the disease. It belongs to the group of Coronavires. A few days later, a group around the virologist Christian Drosten of the Berlin Charite published the first diagnostic test for the new virus, which researchers provisionally call 2019-nCoV. The test can be used to detect the virus in the laboratory. As a source of the pathogen, the Chinese authorities suspect a food market in Wuhan, where, in addition to fish and seafood, exotic animals such as snakes were sold. The market was closed and disinfected
Yeah.
Both the respiratory diseases Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and Mers (Middle East respiratory syndrome) are caused by coronary viruses that originate in animals. During the Sars pandemic, in the years 2002 and 2003, about 8.000 people died, more than 750. The Mers virus has infected people from its discovery 2012 to the end of the year 2019 about 2.500, and every third person has died from it. Overall, however, there are several hundred types of coronavirus. Many of them affect the airways and can cause, for example, colds.
In China, several thousand people are now ill, some of them, most likely pre-infected, have died of pneumonia caused by the virus. The first infections outside China were known in Thailand, Japan and South Korea. These are travellers who had previously been to Wuhan. I have 21. In January, US authorities reported the first infection in a tourist who returned from Wuhan on the 24th. In January, the first cases in France became known. In the meantime, the first cases in Germany have also been confirmed. Typical signs of infection are fever, cough and difficulty breathing. The virus can cause pneumonia that can end in death. Because it's a viral disease, antibiotics don't help.
It is now clear that the virus can be transmitted from human to human. The Chinese authorities have confirmed several such transmissions after about a dozen medical personnel have been notified. Doctors assume that the virus is mainly transmitted via droplet infection. The World Health Organization, like it does on 24th. January, currently reporting that an infected person in sections 1,4 to 2,5 infects other people. If these numbers persist, the virus is less contagious than sars and also the virus flu
The WHO recommends general hygiene rules: wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people with respiratory diseases and wild animals.
There's no way to say for sure yet. The World Health Organization shared on 28. In January, approximately one fifth of the reported cases are seriously affected by the virus, so in case of doubt intensive medical treatment is required. According to reports, the first victims were patients who had some severe pre-existing diseases. Other infectious diseases also pose a particular risk to people with pre-existing diseases, such as influenza. Coronaviruses are known to mutate, so they can change their heritage. This may lead to them becoming more dangerous to humans during an outbreak, but also to the exact opposite. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) does not currently expect a mortality rate similar to that of the Sars outbreak.
The virus has not only spread within China. In many other countries in the East Asian region, cases have now been recorded at mostly one-year levels. The United States also recorded an infected person, three infected people were registered in France on Friday. In Australia, the number of infected has recently increased from one to four people. Many countries are now carrying out checks at airports, and some countries are also preparing evacuation measures.
According to RIA, Russia talks to the Chinese authorities about bringing Russian citizens from Wuhan to safety. No infections have been detected in Russia so far.
According to a report from the New York Times, the US State Department has also begun to withdraw its consulate staff from Wuhan
Yeah. As the Wall Street Journal writes on the basis of a person familiar with the plans, a charter flight for 230 persons was organised for Sunday.
In Hong Kong, however, Chief of Government Carrie Lam has declared an emergency. After the New Year's Day, schools and universities will be closed for another two weeks, including one for the 9th. February planned marathon with tens of thousands of expected participants has been cancelled. Five infections have been reported in Hong Kong so far.
The virus is said to originate in an animal market in Wuhan and belongs to the group of Coronaviruses. These usually cause respiratory diseases, which may vary in severity, but usually only lead to colds. However, the cause of SARS was also part of the virus group. SARS had killed 2002 and 2003 about 800 people in China and Hong Kong.
