The number of deaths caused by the new Coronavirus in China has increased by at least 80's by another 24-year-old. A new interim report by the Chinese authorities also shows that the total number of registered disease cases has now increased to more than 2.700. The previous number was still around 2.000 diseases.
The Chinese authorities are trying to stop the spread of the virus by means of drastic travel restrictions. In addition to the millions of metropolises of Wuhan, from where the disease wave originated, the entire central Chinese province of Hubei is now under quarantine, affecting around 56 million people. As a further measure, major events were cancelled and fever controls introduced.
In order to limit contact between people, China extended the holiday to Chinese New Year's Eve by three more days until Sunday. In Beijing, universities, schools and kindergartens remain closed for the time being beyond the end of the New Year's holidays. The two largest amusement parks in Hong Kong, Disneyland and Ocean Park, closed their gates. On Sunday, the trade in wild animals was also banned throughout the People's Republic. The Beijing authorities sent text messages to mobile phone users in the Chinese capital urging them not to shake hands to welcome them.
At the end of 2019, the Chinese authorities reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) a frequency of pneumonia of unclear cause in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. Already a week later, Chinese researchers identified a novel virus as the cause of the disease. It belongs to the group of Coronavires
Yeah. A few days later, a group around the virologist Christian Drosten of the Berlin Charite published the first diagnostic test for the new virus, which researchers provisionally call 2019-nCoV. The test can be used to detect the virus in the laboratory. As a source of the pathogen, the Chinese authorities suspect a food market in Wuhan, where, in addition to fish and seafood, exotic animals such as snakes were sold. The market was closed and disinfected.
Both the respiratory diseases Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and Mers (Middle East respiratory syndrome) are caused by coronary viruses that originate in animals. During the Sars pandemic, in the years 2002 and 2003, about 8.000 people died, more than 750. The Mers virus has infected people from its discovery 2012 to the end of the year 2019 about 2.500, and every third person has died from it. Overall, however, there are several hundred types of coronavirus. Many of them affect the airways and can cause, for example, colds.
In China, several thousand people are now ill, some of them, most likely pre-infected, have died of pneumonia caused by the virus. The first infections outside China were known in Thailand, Japan and South Korea. These are travellers who had previously been to Wuhan. I have 21. In January, US authorities reported the first infection in a tourist who returned from Wuhan on the 24th. In January, the first cases in France became known. In the meantime, the first cases in Germany have also been confirmed. Typical signs of infection are fever, cough and difficulty breathing. The virus can cause pneumonia that can end in death. Because it's a viral disease, antibiotics don't help.
It is now clear that the virus can be transmitted from person to person
Yeah. The Chinese authorities have confirmed several such transmissions after about a dozen medical personnel have been notified. Doctors assume that the virus is mainly transmitted via droplet infection. The World Health Organization, like it does on 24th. January, currently reporting that an infected person in sections 1,4 to 2,5 infects other people. If these numbers persist, the virus is less contagious than Sars and also the virus flu. The WHO recommends to observe general hygiene rules: wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people with respiratory diseases and wild animals.
There's no way to say for sure yet. The World Health Organization shared on 28. In January, approximately one fifth of the reported cases are seriously affected by the virus, so in case of doubt intensive medical treatment is required. According to reports, the first victims were patients who had some severe pre-existing diseases. Other infectious diseases also pose a particular risk to people with pre-existing diseases, such as influenza. Coronaviruses are known to mutate, so they can change their heritage. This may lead to them becoming more dangerous to humans during an outbreak, but also to the exact opposite. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) does not currently expect a mortality rate similar to that of the Sars outbreak.
The head of the World Health Organisation (WHO), Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, wants to discuss measures to combat the virus at the beginning of the week during a visit to China. I'm on my way to Beijing,"he tweeted in the shortwave service. In the Chinese capital he wanted to meet with government representatives and health experts.
In North America, the authorities also confirmed further cases
Yeah. According to the US health authority, there were five patients in Washington until Sunday afternoon (local time). On Sunday, two new cases were confirmed in California and one in Arizona. One of them had been confirmed by the Orange County Health Department in Los Angeles that the person had previously returned from a trip to Wuhan in China. Two other cases had already become known: a woman in the sixties in Chicago and a man in the thirties in Washington State on the West Coast in the north of the country.
On Saturday there was also a first "provisionally confirmed" case in Canada. In Toronto, a man came to the hospital who had also visited the Chinese region of Wuhan before. A formal confirmation by further testing in a laboratory in Winnipeg was still pending, the country's chief medical officer, Theresa Tam, explained on Sunday.
In addition to the US, several other countries reported individual cases of infection, including Australia, Japan and France. There was a suspicion in Austria and Berlin at the weekend. In both countries, however, there was later unveiling. The test results were negative, the Berlin Senate Board of Health reported on Sunday. A clinic in Vienna stated that the Chinese flight attendant had not been infected.
The government in Tokyo offers Japanese in Wuhan to fly them out of the deported city. The employees of the US Consulate in the Central Chinese City are to be flown to San Francisco. There are limited seats for other U.S. citizens, the State Department reported in Washington. French citizens are also to be brought directly from Wuhan to their home country.
