Now the new Coronavirus 2019-nCoV has also appeared in Germany. Health systems are well prepared for this. In the country of origin, however, thousands are infected and it is still uncertain how dangerous the organism is. There are no medicines to treat the sick. Rolf Hilgenfeld is trying to help. The biochemist has been on his way to China since last week.
TIME ONLINE: Mr Hilgenfeld, what are you actually doing?
Rolf Hilgenfeld: I want to find out if the inhibitors we developed at the University of Lubeck work as well against the new Coronavirus as against Sars and Mers viruses. I'm here looking for collaborators who have cell cultures with the new virus to test the substances on. However, our substances are still at an experimental stage. Unfortunately, they are still a long way from being used as a medicine in the current outbreak.
TIME ONLINE: Still no medicine for the new virus?
Hilgenfeld: No, not yet approved, because 2019-nCoV has just been discovered. However, experience has been gained with various medicines during the Sars outbreak 2002 and 2003. And a combination of two substances proved particularly promising in the first clinical trials: the combination of the active substances lopinavir and ritonavir. It's actually anti-HIV medicine.
TIME ONLINE: You're saying you should give Coronavirus patients aids?
This is how it is. Especially in outbreaks such as these, there are regular attempts to re-dedicate already authorised medicines. This has the advantage that these products have already been tested intensively on humans and can therefore be considered safe. This saves you years of testing, because usually when you break out, time is of the essence. Now it takes far too long to develop something new
Yeah. And Lopinavir and ritonavir are only allowed against HIV.
TIME ONLINE: How do these medicines work?
Helpful field: In order to multiply, RNA viruses, like 2019-nCoV, form very large protein molecules. They must then be cut into individual components by certain enzymes in order for the virus to multiply. That's what you're trying to prevent. You can do that by inhibiting the enzymes. The good news is, these enzymes are very similar to the individual coronavirus. We investigated this in Lubeck before the Sars outbreak 2002. Back then, Coronaviruses were still considered unimportant to humans. They thought they'd cause a cold. At the time, many even advised me to stop these "unimportant" works. And shortly after the Sars pandemic began, we were the only ones who had ever clarified three-dimensional structures of coronavirus proteins. On this basis, we have already developed a substance that can inhibit coronavirus. We were able to suggest that a medicine that should actually work against rhinoviruses, the typical "flu viruses", should also be effective against coronavirus after slight changes.
TIME ONLINE: If so, why can't you use the substance in the current outbreak?
Help field: It is still in experimental condition. In order to be able to use it, it has to be developed into a medicine in years of research. When we wanted to run more tests back then, the Sars outbreak was over and we had no patients to test the substance on. This is also a fundamental problem for all research in this field.
At the end of 2019, the Chinese authorities reported to the World Health Organisation WHO a frequency of pneumonia of unclear cause in the central Chinese city of Wuhan
Yeah. Already a week later, Chinese researchers identified a novel virus as the cause of the disease. It belongs to the group of Coronavires. A few days later, a group around the virologist Christian Drosten of the Berlin Charite published the first diagnostic test for the new virus, which researchers provisionally call 2019-nCoV. The test can be used to detect the virus in the laboratory. As a source of the pathogen, the Chinese authorities suspect a food market in Wuhan, where, in addition to fish and seafood, exotic animals such as snakes were sold. The market was closed and disinfected.
Both the respiratory diseases Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and Mers (Middle East respiratory syndrome) are caused by coronary viruses that originate in animals. During the Sars pandemic, in the years 2002 and 2003, about 8.000 people died, more than 750. The Mers virus has infected people from its discovery 2012 to the end of the year 2019 about 2.500, and every third person has died from it. Overall, however, there are several hundred types of coronavirus. Many of them affect the airways and can cause, for example, colds.
In China, several thousand people are now ill, some of them, most likely pre-infected, have died of pneumonia caused by the virus. The first infections outside China were known in Thailand, Japan and South Korea. These are travellers who had previously been to Wuhan. I have 21. In January, US authorities reported the first infection in a tourist who returned from Wuhan on the 24th. In January, the first cases in France became known. In the meantime, the first cases in Germany have also been confirmed. Typical signs of infection are fever, cough and difficulty breathing. The virus can cause pneumonia that can end in death
Yeah. Because it's a viral disease, antibiotics don't help.
It is now clear that the virus can be transmitted from human to human. The Chinese authorities have confirmed several such transmissions after about a dozen medical personnel have been notified. Doctors assume that the virus is mainly transmitted via droplet infection. The World Health Organization, like it does on 24th. January, currently reporting that an infected person in sections 1,4 to 2,5 infects other people. If these numbers persist, the virus is less contagious than Sars and also the virus flu. The WHO recommends to observe general hygiene rules: wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people with respiratory diseases and wild animals.
There's no way to say for sure yet. The World Health Organization shared on 28. In January, approximately one fifth of the reported cases are seriously affected by the virus, so in case of doubt intensive medical treatment is required. According to reports, the first victims were patients who had some severe pre-existing diseases. Other infectious diseases also pose a particular risk to people with pre-existing diseases, such as influenza. Coronaviruses are known to mutate, so they can change their heritage. This may lead to them becoming more dangerous to humans during an outbreak, but also to the exact opposite. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) does not currently expect a mortality rate similar to that of the Sars outbreak.
ONLINE TIME: What do you mean?
Help field: First you have to show in an animal experiment that a substance is safe and then that it works. But you can't just infect a mouse with coronavirus, you have to plant an extra human receptor in the mouse, you have to "humanize" it. It takes months.
Yeah. And only then will the examinations of patients begin, which will last for years to come. And when you finally get there, there are no more patients to try the drugs on because the outbreak is over. This is why it is difficult to find funding. And the pharmaceutical industry is not interested in coronavirus. Even the 8.000 Sars cases at the time are not a lucrative market for companies. That is also why we now have no effective medicine against the new virus.
ONLINE TIME: Viruses change their heritage when they multiply. Does that also make it so difficult to develop an effective medicine?
Helpful field: It is sometimes read that Coronaviruses mutate particularly quickly. That's not true at all. The virus does not change as quickly as influenza viruses, for example. The mutation rates are lower. This is because Coronaviruses are quite effective in correcting the errors that occur when they multiply. So that's not the reason why there's still no authorized drug for coronavirus. In fact, it is not so difficult to develop one if only there were more support for research.
TIME ONLINE: Are there any other medicines besides lopinavir and ritonavir that have already been tested and would be readily available?
Help field: I think another medicine is promising: Remdesivir. It was originally developed against the Ebola virus. In cell cultures, however, it also works against other RNA viruses, for example against Sars and Mers Coronaviruses. That's why they call it a broad-spectrum drug. I think it is possible that Remdesivir could also work against the new 2019-CnoV. And I assume that the WHO will also recommend the drug in the current outbreak.
TIME ONLINE: What are the chances that it actually works?
Help field: You have to see this
Yeah. Finally, unlike the combination of lopinavir and ritonavir, it has never been used in humans against coronavirs. In this respect, it can be described as experimental, but it has already been tested for its safety in humans. Both drugs, and perhaps also interferon beta, should now be tested as soon as possible in clinical studies to know if they work.
TIME ONLINE: Could this stop the current Coronavirus outbreak?
Helpfeld: It is difficult to predict because many aspects of the outbreak have not yet been clarified. But after everything that's been known about these drugs so far, I think it's possible to break the chain of infection and stop the outbreak.
ONLINE TIME: Treatment is one thing. In addition, there would be the option of immunising people with a vaccine against the Coronavirus. What's the status?
Helpful field: Currently several organizations around the world are working on a vaccine, for example the Chinese Center for Disease Control, but also the National Institutes of Health in the USA. They seem to hope to be able to start tests on patients in the first half of the year. That would be very quick. Sars took almost two years to start the first clinical trials with vaccines after the virus was decoded.
TIME ONLINE: Could vaccine candidates developed against Sars and Mers serve as the basis for a vaccine against the new Coronavirus?
Auxiliary field: The aim of the vaccines is the so-called spike protein, which you have to think of as spikes on the viral envelope. And, unlike the enzymes that are attacked by the AIDS medicines Lopinavir/ritonavir, they differ significantly depending on the type of virus. The spike protein of the Wuhan virus is only 51 percent identical to that of the Sars-Coronavirus. This makes a vaccine that works against many coronary viruses equally unlikely.
Yeah. Even if it is quick: it will take months for a specific vaccine against 2019-nCoV to be developed and ready for use. Our best chance against the virus right now is the drugs we already have.
Read all about the Coronavirus outbreak on this page.
