He is now the most famous virologist in Germany. 2003, he has deciphered the Sars virus, now developing the first detection test for the new Coronavirus from Wuhan. Everyone's been asking for his advice ever since. It should be impossible to get close to Christian Drosten.
But the director of the Institute of Virology at the Berlin Charite is radically adhering to a strategy that he has already made his credo during the Sars epidemic: all information must be out, everything must be made public. It's the only way to keep a virus in check. So Christian Drosten is in a hurry, he is a little late, he was just in the Foreign Office, last Monday in his office, quickly looks through a few emails, takes a place at a round natural wood table, leans back and is focused.
Is the situation not much better today than during the Sars epidemic, given the technical progress?" I don't know,"Drosten says. On the one hand, with many genome analyses, it has been very quickly discovered that the virus has not been circulating among humans for very long." This is good to assess the epidemic."On the other hand, the mobility of Chinese society has changed drastically."The Chinese society has changed a lot. I can well imagine that the rapid spread of the current virus can only be explained by this."
The 47-year-old physician has spent his entire professional life dealing with coronary viruses. When the Sars pathogen (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) entered its course at the end of 2002, no one knew at first what kind of germ it was. At that time Christian Drosten worked at the Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine in Hamburg and developed diagnostic tests for infectious diseases. The young scientist was able to identify the agent of Sars, a Coronavirus similar to the current 2019-nCoV in China.
Yeah.
At the time, he was able to present a proof test with a colleague. Two years later, he was awarded the Federal Merit Cross. When he was only 35 years old, Drosten moved to the Institute of Virology at Bonn University Hospital, and ten years later he joined the Charity.
There, the virologist and his team have been tracking every angle of the new Coronavirus for weeks now. Without having it in the lab himself, he developed the test for it.
Drosten doesn't claim to understand the virus yet. Like all parties involved, he has to deal with the fact that the data situation changes hourly. At first it was said from China that the virus could not be transmitted from person to person. That was soon past. Then it was said that drastic measures such as the closure of entire metropolises could contain the virus in China. A false assumption.
The image of the Coronavirus is sharper than that of the fast-moving media world. That is why Drosten formulates only one working hypothesis on this day: the new Coronavirus is basically like Sars. At this point he deduces that 2019-nCoV can only be transmitted by people with symptoms.
One day later, it is said that in Bavaria, a Chinese woman from Shanghai transmitted the virus to employees of a company, allegedly asymptomatic. An alarm signal: In asymptomatic hosts, the virus can travel far unknown and infect many people on the way. In the renowned New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) a specialist article on the Bavarian case appears, the Global Health Emergency is called by the WHO.
A week later, it is clear that the Chinese woman had back pain and was taking a fever-reducing medicine, which is why the infection was not noticed, and that the authors of the article had not spoken to the Chinese woman. Christian Drosten's name was also included in the publication. He's uncomfortable with that.
Yeah. Normally, one examines all the facts in a group of authors, he says, "but in this case I simply had to trust the authors who have spent much longer on the case history of patients". As a confirmation laboratory, he only supplied data, which he stands for.
But isn't this breakdown an example of how premature publication of data is harmful?
But threats remain with his demand for maximum transparency. The fact that the patient had lectures despite the illness and could infect colleagues shows that the virus spread more easily than initially suspected. But the breakdown with the article in the NEJM proves another worrying development." Journals today actively press for speed and want sensation."And this also applies to high-level publications.
Drosten published the very first paper on the novel Coronavirus in Eurosurveillance, the scientific journal of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. "The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control We could have published it in the NEJM,"he says,"but we didn't do it intentionally."He was more concerned that all data be made fully available online so that everyone can read it.
The only thing that helps in a situation with insufficient data is transparency, Drosten says. It is only when all the information is immediately available to the relevant institutions that incorrect assumptions can be corrected and proper reactions can be initiated. When he advocated this rigorous demand during the Sars epidemic and published genetic data early, he says it was "totally unusual". And today he is angry that some colleagues still did not understand it and withheld important current data.
Drosten also fights behind the scenes for science journals to introduce new transparency rules
Yeah. Manuscripts should only be accepted as part of an outbreak if the authors simultaneously deposited the data on a publicly accessible pre-print server." This is the only regulation that can work to finally achieve transparency in this system or to prevent the system from slowing down progress in the fight against epidemics."
The virologist himself also practices transparency in the public. A colleague of his says that Drosten is one of the few virologists who fully understand epidemics, both the molecular biological side and the clinical aspects and the educational work.
He has learned from the Sars crisis, says Drosten, that in addition to the transparent dissemination of scientific data, open communication with the population is essential." Knowledge of the disease alone in Hong Kong at the time was sufficient to get patients to see a doctor sooner."If the situation escalates as it does in Wuhan, then"any drastic message is useful". Because only then would people change their behaviour: avoid the accumulation of people and maintain the necessary social distance.
Spreading his knowledge is now eating up much of Christian Drosten's time. Which is not entirely safe for him. I'm not sure if being a scientist makes up for that,"he says,"you have to be careful not to become a television professor."
At the end of 2019, the Chinese authorities reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) a frequency of pneumonia of unclear cause in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. Already a week later, Chinese researchers identified a novel virus as the cause of the disease. It belongs to the group of Coronavires
Yeah. A few days later, a group around the virologist Christian Drosten of the Berlin Charite published the first diagnostic test for the new virus, which researchers provisionally call 2019-nCoV. The test can be used to detect the virus in the laboratory. As a source of the pathogen, the Chinese authorities suspect a food market in Wuhan, where, in addition to fish and seafood, exotic animals such as snakes were sold. The market was closed and disinfected.
Both the respiratory diseases Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and Mers (Middle East respiratory syndrome) are caused by coronary viruses that originate in animals. During the Sars pandemic, in the years 2002 and 2003, about 8.000 people died, more than 750. The Mers virus has infected people from its discovery 2012 to the end of the year 2019 about 2.500, and every third person has died from it. Overall, however, there are several hundred types of coronavirus. Many of them affect the airways and can cause, for example, colds.
In China, several thousand people are now ill, some of them, most likely pre-infected, have died of pneumonia caused by the virus. The first infections outside China were known in Thailand, Japan and South Korea. These are travellers who had previously been to Wuhan. I have 21. In January, US authorities reported the first infection in a tourist who returned from Wuhan on the 24th. In January, the first cases in France became known. In the meantime, the first cases in Germany have also been confirmed. Typical signs of infection are fever, cough and difficulty breathing. The virus can cause pneumonia that can end in death. Because it's a viral disease, antibiotics don't help.
It is now clear that the virus can be transmitted from person to person
Yeah. The Chinese authorities have confirmed several such transmissions after about a dozen medical personnel have been notified. Doctors assume that the virus is mainly transmitted via droplet infection. The World Health Organization, like it does on 24th. January, currently reporting that an infected person in sections 1,4 to 2,5 infects other people. If these numbers persist, the virus is less contagious than Sars and also the virus flu. The WHO recommends to observe general hygiene rules: wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people with respiratory diseases and wild animals.
There's no way to say for sure yet. The World Health Organization shared on 28. In January, approximately one fifth of the reported cases are seriously affected by the virus, so in case of doubt intensive medical treatment is required. According to reports, the first victims were patients who had some severe pre-existing diseases. Other infectious diseases also pose a particular risk to people with pre-existing diseases, such as influenza. Coronaviruses are known to mutate, so they can change their heritage. This may lead to them becoming more dangerous to humans during an outbreak, but also to the exact opposite. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) does not currently expect a mortality rate similar to that of the Sars outbreak.
