More than 120 passengers have flown back to Germany on a German military plane from the Chinese millionaire city of Wuhan. That's what the Joint Chiefs reported on Twitter. The plane is expected in Germany on Saturday afternoon. On the return flight from the area heavily affected by the Coronavirus, the plane will land in Helsinki and is expected in Frankfurt in the afternoon.
Originally, the aircraft of type Airbus A310 should have landed in Moscow. This did not happen, however: Russia refused shore leave. So Colonel Daniel Draken, commander of the Ministry of Defence's readiness to fly, said Sunday's picture (BamS): "Russia has granted us permission to fly. But a landing at Moscow airports was denied, citing a lack of ground capacity."
According to BamS information, Russia had previously offered the German authorities a landing. The stopover on the flight to Frankfurt is necessary to refuel the plane and replace the pilots. An A310 crew had already flown to Moscow on Thursday to take over the machine. This is exactly the kind of crew that flew to Helsinki on Saturday night.
On board the machine are not only 90-year-old citizens but also citizens of other nations. The German army plane had landed in Wuhan on Saturday morning after a ten-hour flight. The United States, Japan and other countries have already taken citizens out of the metropolis or are planning to take them back.
There are no infected passengers and no suspicious cases, Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said in Berlin. Participation in the return flight is voluntary. On arrival, at the request of China, 10.000 protective suits that were needed locally were taken on board the plane, said Maas
Yeah.
After landing at Frankfurt Airport, passengers are to be quarantined for the 14-day incubation period. According to the Federal Ministry of Health, this will be centrally located in a training cage at the Germersheim Air Force Base in Rhineland-Palatinate. This is about 100 kilometers from Frankfurt Airport.
At the end of 2019, the Chinese authorities reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) a frequency of pneumonia of unclear cause in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. Already a week later, Chinese researchers identified a novel virus as the cause of the disease. It belongs to the group of Coronavires. A few days later, a group around the virologist Christian Drosten of the Berlin Charite published the first diagnostic test for the new virus, which researchers provisionally call 2019-nCoV. The test can be used to detect the virus in the laboratory. As a source of the pathogen, the Chinese authorities suspect a food market in Wuhan, where, in addition to fish and seafood, exotic animals such as snakes were sold. The market was closed and disinfected.
Both the respiratory diseases Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and Mers (Middle East respiratory syndrome) are caused by coronary viruses that originate in animals. During the Sars pandemic, in the years 2002 and 2003, about 8.000 people died, more than 750. The Mers virus has infected people from its discovery 2012 to the end of the year 2019 about 2.500, and every third person has died from it. Overall, however, there are several hundred types of coronavirus. Many of them affect the airways and can cause, for example, colds.
In China, several thousand people are now ill, some of them, most likely pre-infected, have died of pneumonia due to the virus.
Yeah. The first infections outside China were known in Thailand, Japan and South Korea. These are travellers who had previously been to Wuhan. I have 21. In January, US authorities reported the first infection in a tourist who returned from Wuhan on the 24th. In January, the first cases in France became known. In the meantime, the first cases in Germany have also been confirmed. Typical signs of infection are fever, cough and difficulty breathing. The virus can cause pneumonia that can end in death. Because it's a viral disease, antibiotics don't help.
It is now clear that the virus can be transmitted from human to human. The Chinese authorities have confirmed several such transmissions after about a dozen medical personnel have been notified. Doctors assume that the virus is mainly transmitted via droplet infection. The World Health Organization, like it does on 24th. January, currently reporting that an infected person in sections 1,4 to 2,5 infects other people. If these numbers persist, the virus is less contagious than Sars and also the virus flu. The WHO recommends to observe general hygiene rules: wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people with respiratory diseases and wild animals.
There's no way to say for sure yet. The World Health Organization shared on 28. In January, approximately one fifth of the reported cases are seriously affected by the virus, so in case of doubt intensive medical treatment is required. According to reports, the first victims were patients who had some severe pre-existing diseases. Other infectious diseases also pose a particular risk to people with pre-existing diseases, such as influenza. Coronaviruses are known to mutate, so they can change their heritage.
Yeah. This may lead to them becoming more dangerous to humans during an outbreak, but also to the exact opposite. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) does not currently expect a mortality rate similar to that of the Sars outbreak.
Meanwhile, the virus continues to spread. The number of infected in China increased until Saturday to 11.791. With 46 new deaths, 259 died of lung disease, as reported by the Beijing Health Commission. It has been the strongest increase in numbers in one day so far. Outside the People's Republic, infections are counted in around 25 countries around 150.
The Coronavirus apparently spread from Germany for the first time to Spain. The Spanish Ministry of Health confirmed an infection on the Canary Island of La Gomera. The patient who was isolated because of the disease in a hospital belongs to a group of five people who had contact with an infected person in Germany. All of them would now be under the supervision of local health authorities.
In Germany, where a child has also been infected for the first time, the number of infected people is now seven. The father is an infected man from the district of Traunstein. Furthermore, as the Bavarian Ministry of Health reported in Munich on Friday evening, lung disease was confirmed in a man from the district of Prinznfeldbruck. Like the first five infected in Germany, he works at Webasto.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the spread of the virus to be "a health emergency of international importance". The 190-member countries will thus coordinate among themselves the crisis measures recommended by the WHO.
