Because of the increasing number of infections with the new Coronavirus, countries like Japan and the US are evacuating their citizens from China. A plane with 206 Japanese women who had previously stopped at the Central Chinese Million Metropolis Wuhan landed at Tokyo's Haned International Airport. Wuhan is considered the starting point of the new virus and has been virtually sealed off from the outside world." I was very worried that I would be stuck there,"said Takeo Aoyama, an employee of Nippon Steel, after his arrival in Tokyo. I'm very relieved."
According to U.S. diplomats, a U.S. charter machine with 220 people on board also left Wuhan. How many people were on board was not announced at first. The U.S. Foreign Office has organised the flight for U.S. government employees in Wuhan, confirmed a spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. If there was enough space available, US citizens would also be offered seats, but they would have to be paid, it was said, in advance of the flight. All passengers had been examined for symptoms prior to departure at the airport.
The US government is also considering suspending flights to China." All options for dealing with the spread of infectious diseases must be examined, including travel restrictions,"said US Health Minister Alex Azar.
There are also ongoing votes with the Chinese and Hessian authorities to expel Germans. The machine should then land in Frankfurt, said Health Minister Jens Spahn at ZDF." We need to prepare how to proceed with passengers here."About a hundred people would have volunteered to leave. People with symptoms of illness would not be allowed on board.
Meanwhile, China's women's national football team has been quarantined for the Olympic Games on their arrival in Australia.
Yeah. According to consistent media reports, the team should meet up to five. Stay in his hotel in Brisbane in February. I have 22. In January the selection was still held in Wuhan, the starting point of the new Coronavirus. According to Queensland's health officials, 32 people were only supposed to have travelled through the area heavily affected by the virus a week ago. Symptoms should not have been seen in any person from the delegation.
In China, the number of deaths from 106 to 132 increased. Airlines such as British Airways and Indonesian Lion Air want to stop their flights to the country. Meanwhile, scientists are working on a vaccine. Until Tuesday, 1.459 new diseases have been reported, with the result that there are now almost 6.000 disease cases, most of them in China. The number is now higher than in the Sars epidemic. Outside China, 15 countries have so far been affected, including the USA, France and Singapore. There are four confirmed cases in Germany.
After it became known that several employees of the German car supplier Webasto in Bavaria were infected with the new Coronavirus, the company temporarily closed its site in Stockdorf. In addition, all national and international missions would be suspended until Sunday.
The embargo on business trips to China even lasted two weeks, the company continued to inform. On Wednesday, therefore, a team of doctors will also begin "systematic" testing of contact persons of the employees affected by the virus. According to the current state of affairs, patients'disease progressions are "very, very mild", said Federal Health Minister Jens Spahn in the ZDF Morning Magazine.
The Japanese car manufacturer Toyota is also reacting by closing its plants in the neighbouring country. It has been decided to operate the factories up to
Yeah. A group spokesperson in Tokyo announced that it would be postponed in February. The situation will be monitored and decided, as from the 10th. In February the procedure continued.
On Tuesday it became known that four Webasto employees were infected with the novel virus from China. According to the Bavarian Ministry of Health, they had previously had contact with a colleague infected with the virus from China who was on the 21st. In January he had stopped for a training session at the Bavarian site. According to the Chinese, the infection was not diagnosed until she returned to China.
On Wednesday, the United Arab Emirates confirmed the first suspicious case, as WAM reported by the state news agency on the basis of the Ministry of Health. The person concerned came from the Central Chinese millionaire Wuhan.
A market in Wuhan is considered the starting point of the virus. Most of the infected and dead are found in the province of Hubei. In addition to China, there are confirmed cases of infections in Thailand, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Nepal, Cambodia and Sri Lanka in Asia. France and Germany have so far been affected in Europe. Australia, Canada and the USA also reported confirmed infections with the Coronavirus.
Australian scientists bred the deadly corona virus in the lab. The Peter Doherty Institute for Infections and Immunity in Melbourne reported this. The virus was taken from an infected patient and successfully bred. It is now possible to work together with other institutes and the World Health Organisation on an antidote. The head of the virus lab spoke of a "significant breakthrough"
Yeah.
Specifically, scientists could develop an antibody test to detect the corona virus in patients before these symptoms occur. In this way, a "more accurate picture of the spread of the virus and thus the actual mortality rate" could be created, said Deputy Institute Manager Mike Catton. Catton added that it would also help to develop a vaccine.
Unlike during the Sars epidemic of the 2002 and 2003 years, China had quickly decrypted and made public the genome of the new Coronavirus. The virus itself did not make Beijing available to foreign laboratories. Australian scientists will now do this via the World Health Organisation (WHO).
