The spread of the mysterious lung disease in China may be much greater than previously assumed. The British Center for the Analysis of Global Infectious Diseases at Imperial College London estimates the true number of infected to more than 1700's.
Experts also warn against a transfer from person to person. The central Chinese metropolis of Wuhan reported on Sunday that the novel corona virus had been discovered in 17-year-old lung patients. The number of confirmed cases in China is thus increasing to 62. Two patients have died so far.
"It is likely that the outbreak of the new Coronavirus in Wuhan has caused significantly more cases of moderate or severe respiratory diseases than previously reported," says the study of experts from Imperial College London, which also advises the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the British Government.
The estimation of more than 1700 infections is based on a calculation model in which the experts based the three infections found abroad on the number of air travellers, the population and the incubation period. For example, around 19 million people live in the catchment area of Wuhan Airport, but only around 3400 people fly abroad every day.
Two infections have been confirmed in Thailand and one case has been confirmed in Japan by travellers from Wuhan. The three patients had also not visited the animal market, which was officially associated with most other infections in Wuhan. Referring to the experience with similar corona viruses such as Sars or Mers, London experts warn that a self-sustained transmission from person to person should not be ruled out.
Coronaviruses often cause harmless diseases such as colds; however, they also include agents of dangerous respiratory diseases such as Sars and Mers.
Yeah. It is believed that the new virus comes from the animal world. So far, however, according to the WHO, there has been "no clear evidence" of human-to-human transmission.
According to experts, the new pathogen is very similar to the Sars virus. Sars stands for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, a.k.a. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome. In the Sars pandemic, 2002/2003 was a disease of lung disease from China around the world around 8000. Barely 800 died.
Following the outbreak of the new lung disease in Wuhan, suspected cases from Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore, Vietnam and Nepal have already been reported. At least three suspicious patients are also present in the Chinese cities of Shenzhen and Shanghai, as the Hong Kong newspaper South China Morning Post reported.
The 17th new infections in Wuhan had been identified during the investigation of other patients who had been treated in different hospitals in the city with lung disease of unknown cause, the health department reported. Three of them were seriously ill. The rest is stable. Thus, the total number of patients in critical condition increases to eight.
The age of the newly discovered patients ranged from 30 to 79 years, it was said. The authorities were now tracking who had been in close contact with them. The city will expand its search for further suspicious cases and run tests, the health department announced. The 62 confirmed patients had so far been released 19 as cured. (dpa)
