There are more and more cases of fatal lung disease in China. With the current wave of travel to the Chinese New Year's Festival next Saturday (25. (January) the risk of transmission continues to grow. With the largest annual migration of people, several hundred million Chinese are on the move.
In the fight against the spread, the Chinese capital Beijing has now cancelled all major events and temple festivals on the occasion of the Chinese New Year's Eve. The Urban Tourism Authority announced that this would "reduce the number of people gathered". Health comes first.
The instruction applies immediately and also to the traditional markets in the temples of the capital, which normally take place during the two-week New Year celebrations. Also the Imperial Palace and parts of the Great Wall are closed from Saturday onwards for visitors. The popular wall section Badaling in northern Beijing is affected.
The Chinese Health Commission stated that the initial infections were linked to a closed fish market in Wuhan, where wild animals were also sold. Most of the infections continued to focus on the 11-million metropolis.
In the fight against the spread of lung disease, strict movement restrictions have been imposed on around 37 million people in the severely affected Central Chinese province of Hubei. When the last three metropolises were stopped in Jingzhou (5,6 million inhabitants), Xiaogan (5 million) and Dangyang (470.000), public transport and trains were stopped in other places, as city governments reported. With this, at least eleven cities have been virtually wiped out with the provincial capital Wuhan
Yeah.
Coronaviruses often cause harmless diseases such as colds. Analyses of the inheritance had however, according to the Berlin virus researcher Christian Drosten, revealed that the pathogen is a variant of Sars. Sars stands for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, a.k.a. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome. A Sars virus from China, starting 2002/2003, resulted in a worldwide pandemic with 8000 infected people, about 800 people dying.
At Frankfurt Airport, travellers from and travelling to the Wuhan region are informed about the symptoms and how to deal with them, a spokesman for the Frankfurt Health Office explained. This is done, for example, on large information boards at the airport or on the Foreign Office's website. "One simply has to look at how things are developing globally and then, of course, we also have to adapt the information," the speaker continued. Currently, travel and behavioural recommendations are sufficient. In case of justified suspicions, people concerned would be isolated and observed, the Office said.
German tour operators and Lufthansa are in contact with the authorities because of the spread of the new lung disease in China. "The organisers maintain close contact with the Foreign Office and monitor developments closely," said a spokesperson of the Interbranch Association DRV. According to a spokesperson, Lufthansa does not yet feel any reservation from customers. The speaker said that emergency measures could be started at any time.
According to its own information, the German Industry Primus Tui currently has very few guests in China." Accordingly, there is currently no increased need for information,"said a speaker. On-site guests were informed by SMS of the travel and security instructions of the Foreign Office. According to its own information, DER Touristik received only a few requests from customers about the Corona virus.
Yeah. Also the organizer Berge &Meer has not yet received any increased queries or cancellation requests.
Chinese travellers cannot cancel their package holidays for fear of the new lung disease for free. The travel rights expert Sabine Fischer-Volk of the Karimi office in Berlin explains that it is not possible to withdraw from the travel contract out of fear.
"An exception would only exist if a specific destination or hotel were quarantined, so that you cannot take a holiday there or only with great restrictions," says the lawyer. This is not the case at the moment.
Fishermen-folk advise Chinese travelers to regularly inform themselves about the travel and security instructions of the Foreign Office (AA). This does not currently advise against travelling to China- an important condition for cancelling a package holiday free of charge.
The travel and safety instructions simply say, "Avoid contact with sick people and all animals, avoid markets with animal products and pay increased attention to their hand hygiene." Furthermore, travellers should immediately see a doctor if they develop fever and signs of respiratory infection.
Individual travellers who do not wish to fly cannot be reimbursed by the airline.
For the time being, the ECDC sees a moderate risk of the organism being introduced into the European Union. This was communicated by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in the Swedish Solna.
In order to protect against lung disease, according to travel agencies, North Korea initially closed its borders for foreign tourists. North Korea has been leaving since Wednesday (22. January) No more tourists enter, the Chinese-based agencies Young Pioneer Tours and Koryo Tours announced on their websites. There was no official confirmation from North Korea at first
Yeah.
China's Asian neighbours, the United States and Britain have meanwhile introduced fever controls on entry from Wuhan due to lung disease. Italy, too, according to the Ministry of Health in Rome, relies on checks at the airport in Rome to verify possible suspicions on board aircraft from Wuhan. And Russia strengthened controls at all border posts with China.
For the time being, the French airline Air France has cancelled all direct flights to and from Wuhan in China. The airline thus complies with measures recommended by authorities such as the World Health Organisation (WHO), Air France said. Istanbul Airport had thermal imaging cameras installed to scan passengers from China. (dpa)
