Since Sunday evening, a young patient has been in the Achimer Aller-Weser Clinic, which, according to the clinic, "may be suspected" of a coronary virus infection. However, whether it is indeed a suspect case will only be shown by the results of the laboratory tests expected by the hospital in the next few days.
"The patient came to us on Sunday evening and showed symptoms similar to those of a normal flu," explains the medical director and chairman of the Achim and Verden Hygiene Commission, Peter Ahrens. The only difference is that the young woman had just returned from a trip from Dubai. "On this trip, according to her own information, she was also traveling with a group of Chinese who had coughed."
That's why the lady was worried. According to Ahrens, however, according to the criteria of the Robert Koch Institute, the woman is not a hard suspect. "This would only be the case if the patient had been in contact with people who were safely infected with the Coronavirus or had stopped themselves in China."
The hospital was now asked to use laboratory tests to determine whether this was indeed a suspect case. "We took oral, nasal and throat swabs directly on Sunday evening and they are currently being examined in the laboratory," explains Ahrens. The first results are expected on Tuesday. In addition, more precise deviations were made on Monday. "If the first indent is negative, we are still waiting for the result of the second indent," Ahrens describes the next step. "If both results are negative, the matter is settled."
The patient had been carefully isolated. However, this is also common in influenza, i.e. flu infection
Yeah. "The woman is being watched and she is doing well apart from the flu-like symptoms," Ahrens says. There is currently no risk of life. "It is not a situation that concerns me," the medical director makes clear in view of the patient's condition. "What also relaxes us is the fact that the patient with mid-20s is still very young." Even if the patient should confirm the suspicion of a coronavirus infection, she will recover.
"In China, too, the Coronavirus has so far mainly killed older people, and those who had a previous disease, Ahrens says. The sicker and older you are, the more problematic an infection is. However, this was also true for an influenza infection. This would be more dangerous anyway. In Germany, between two and fourteen million people would get flu every year. The disease was considered fatal in patients up to 208201000.
"If the patient's withdrawal is positive with a view to a coronavirus infection, it would of course be necessary to determine who she last had contact with," Ahrens says. The health department would then be responsible for this. It would also have to be decided whether the patient would continue to be treated in the Aller-Weser clinic in Achim or possibly be moved to Hamburg.
All previous and future steps in the hospital had been closely coordinated with the health authorities in Verden and Hanover. It was considered together whether to inform the public at such an early stage. "If the woman had not had contact with Chinese people, we certainly would not have gone public with the case," says Peter Ahrens.
+++ This text was updated at 21:08 clock +++
