Hardly anyone knows Coronavir as well as he does. Christian Drosten is director of the Institute of Virology at the Charity Berlin. He is working and researching Coronaviruses, 2003 was one of the discoverers of the Sarsvirus and has developed a rapid test for the new Coronavirus, which is currently used in suspected cases. In the interview he talks about the evolution of the new agent, the international emergency and the German arrangements.
Question: We are currently experiencing evolution live: A corona virus, probably from another mammal species, is trying to populate humanity. How does a virus like that do that, Mr. Drosten?
Christian Drosten: One could say that they have taken good care: Coronaviruses are represented with a wide range of genetic variants over many mammalian species. This is a pool of possibilities that is constantly available and trying its luck with new hosts. And sometimes it works, too.
Question: And why are they so variable? Do they mutate particularly fast?
On the contrary. They are much calmer than, for example, flu viruses. These are also RNA viruses, but they constantly change their genes and thus the surfaces that are built on these templates. It's different with the Coronavirs. Their genes and thus their outer structure are relatively resistant to change.
Question: The virus RNA must be copied in the host cell to create new viruses. There are read errors automatically. What else do the Coronavirs do?
Threats: You have a repair system that corrects these errors. Their genes are still changing, but slower and more meaningful. If you put on reading errors, you take into account that many of the changes you create are stillbirths
Yeah. If, on the other hand, you have a correction system, then another mutation maker remains: once they share a host cell, the genes of the different coronavirus combine among themselves. The mutations that come out of there are much more meaningful, the involved nipples have been tried, so to speak. Over time, a relatively large pool of stable variants accumulates.
Question: Coronaviruses are not restricted to mammals, they are found in all kinds of vertebrates, even in the biologically very distant fish. So these viruses are as old as the first vertebrates?
Drosten: This is conceivable. But they could also have opened up to these different hosts afterwards. These are very long periods of time we are talking about. It's hard to understand.
Question: You yourself are working on "Evolution Cards" of Coronaviruses. Together with Australian and English colleagues, you have collected coronavirus from Western European and East Asian rodents and read out their genetic information in the laboratory. What can be deduced from this?
Threats: We can estimate when the first Coronavirus came into this group. And whether it developed linearly with the rodent species or whether there were frequent species leaps. In this case, all viruses were due to a single ancestor...
Question: who must have inhabited the Urmouse, so to speak...
Drought: Yes. It also looks as if his descendants have jumped between the host species quite often.
Question: And what conclusions do you think can be drawn from the RNA sequences for today?
Threatening: If you do it right, you can already learn something for future pandemics. How viruses behave after a species leap, for example. In the early weeks of the outbreak, there was 2002, a certain protein that probably made the virus more infectious. Then this protein suddenly disappeared.
Yeah.
At the end of 2019, the Chinese authorities reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) a frequency of pneumonia of unclear cause in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. Already a week later, Chinese researchers identified a novel virus as the cause of the disease. It belongs to the group of Coronavires. A few days later, a group around the virologist Christian Drosten of the Berlin Charite published the first diagnostic test for the new virus, which researchers provisionally call 2019-nCoV. The test can be used to detect the virus in the laboratory. As a source of the pathogen, the Chinese authorities suspect a food market in Wuhan, where, in addition to fish and seafood, exotic animals such as snakes were sold. The market was closed and disinfected.
Both the respiratory diseases Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and Mers (Middle East respiratory syndrome) are caused by coronary viruses that originate in animals. During the Sars pandemic, in the years 2002 and 2003, about 8.000 people died, more than 750. The Mers virus has infected people from its discovery 2012 to the end of the year 2019 about 2.500, and every third person has died from it. Overall, however, there are several hundred types of coronavirus. Many of them affect the airways and can cause, for example, colds.
In China, several thousand people are now ill, some of them, most likely pre-infected, have died of pneumonia caused by the virus. The first infections outside China were known in Thailand, Japan and South Korea. These are travellers who had previously been to Wuhan. I have 21. In January, US authorities reported the first infection in a tourist who returned from Wuhan on the 24th. In January, the first cases in France became known. In the meantime, the first cases in Germany have also been confirmed.
Yeah. Typical signs of infection are fever, cough and difficulty breathing. The virus can cause pneumonia that can end in death. Because it's a viral disease, antibiotics don't help.
It is now clear that the virus can be transmitted from human to human. The Chinese authorities have confirmed several such transmissions after about a dozen medical personnel have been notified. Doctors assume that the virus is mainly transmitted via droplet infection. The World Health Organization, like it does on 24th. January, currently reporting that an infected person in sections 1,4 to 2,5 infects other people. If these numbers persist, the virus is less contagious than Sars and also the virus flu. The WHO recommends to observe general hygiene rules: wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people with respiratory diseases and wild animals.
There's no way to say for sure yet. The World Health Organization shared on 28. In January, approximately one fifth of the reported cases are seriously affected by the virus, so in case of doubt intensive medical treatment is required. According to reports, the first victims were patients who had some severe pre-existing diseases. Other infectious diseases also pose a particular risk to people with pre-existing diseases, such as influenza. Coronaviruses are known to mutate, so they can change their heritage. This may lead to them becoming more dangerous to humans during an outbreak, but also to the exact opposite. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) does not currently expect a mortality rate similar to that of the Sars outbreak.
Question: This is the opposite of what one would assume. The protein was useful for the virus.
Drosten: Nevertheless it is logical
Yeah. If a virus develops a new host species, it is as if a single breeding pair of birds with their descendants would inhabit a new island on which this species does not yet exist. We know that then fitness can decrease compared to the population of origin, because there can also be random adverse genetic variants. The Sars viruses were just like the offspring of such a scattered breed. Where they settled, there were no other representatives of their kind with whom they had to compete. Some of them accidentally lost their precious protein. They continued to spread, though, while the dangerous viruses probably died out in hospital isolation stations.
Question: Now we are in the middle of the current situation. They explain from the perspective of an evolutionary researcher why, when a new virus occurs, it is essential to isolate the infected consistently: to send the breeding birds to the island.
That's right. The new types of viruses should not be given a chance to build up a humane, competitive population, even because they would then remain or could become more dangerous.
Question: At the moment, everyone is hearing that the new Coronavirus is not as dangerous as Sars, but it is also very contagious even before the first symptoms. And maybe even after the sick are well again. Does isolation still make sense?
Threats: Yes, this virus is surprisingly different from the Sars pathogen at the time. I see this with great concern, but also optimism: the virus is probably better transmitted because it makes people less sick.
Question: People who are afraid of being infected with the Coronavirus must go to the same facilities in Berlin where, for example, travellers collect their protective vaccines. An ideal international turntable for viruses
Yeah. Is there no planning?
Drosten: I see no problem there at the moment. Right now, a lot of people think they're suspects without it. So they're very likely not to infect the travelers. And nobody is unplanned: there is the Infection Protection Act with a clear reporting chain and also pandemic plans. Make sure there's a task force in the Health Department preparing this. The normal waiting rooms as the first point of contact are part of these plans. This is the only way we can do it in Germany, everything is decentralised.
Question: The WHO has just declared an emergency. Does this help to better control the situation internationally?
Threats: This helps to synchronize and justify intergovernmental decisions. Travel warnings can then be more easily pronounced.
Question: What about the German situation?
Threats: only indirectly. Most of it is in our hands. And I actually see a tiny gap here. Under current law, doctors are only required to report confirmed cases. It's too late for an overview of the situation. But this is being changed: suspect cases will soon be reported.
