The new Coronavirus, which is spreading from China, has only been known for weeks. Most of what is currently being published by scientists and reported by the media is provisional. Understanding the new virus is a process. Read here what can be considered safe, likely and still uncertain.
The new virus is related to Sars and Mers
The new virus with the provisional name 2019-nCoV is a pathogen from the Coronavir family. These viruses can infect humans and various animals. In humans, they can cause harmless colds up to deadly diseases. Coronaviruses are also the cause of severe acute respiratory syndrome, Sars, and Mers, which stands for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome. During the largest Sars epidemic in the 2002 and 2003 years, 774 people died worldwide. More than 800 people have died at Mers since 2012. Like its relatives, the new Coronavirus 2019-nCoV can cause severe pneumonia in some infected patients.
Common symptoms are fever and cough
Some infected have few or no signs of disease, others are seriously ill or even die of pneumonia. Symptoms that are quite common according to the first scientific publications are fever, cough and shortness of breath. But muscle and headache as well as diarrhoea can also occur (The Lancet: Chen et al., 2020). When doctors examine patients in hospital by computer tomography, they often see signs of bilateral pneumonia.
The outbreak originated in Wuhan
Starting from the central Chinese city of Wuhan, the virus has spread further. It was there that the first cases in which people were infected (The Lancet: Huang et al. 2020)
Yeah. Thousands of cases are now known, most of them in China. However, more than twenty other states have reported infections with 2019-nCoV. In early February, the first death outside China was also reported, in the Philippines. The World Health Organisation (WHO) regularly publishes the latest outbreak figures on its website. Whether a wildlife market was the origin of the outbreak is uncertain.
The virus originated from bats
Chinese scientists have examined the inheritance of the new Coronavirus in samples from lung secretions from infected patients. It resembles the Sars-Coronavirus, originally derived from bats, to approximately 79 percent (The Lancet: Lu et al., 2020). More closely related, however, is 2019-nCoV with Sars-like viruses found in bats. The inheritance was identical in these cases to 88 percent." It is very certain that the virus was originally circulated in bats,"says the virologist Jonas Schmidt-Chanasit of the Bernhard Nocht Institute of Tropical Medicine in Hamburg. It is not certain that it went directly from bats to humans.
The virus is transmitted like a flu
The new pathogen, like other coronary viruses or the flu virus, the flu virus, is probably primarily transmitted through the air. When an infected person exhales, sneezes or coughs, they distribute microscopic droplets in the air that may contain the virus. In addition to this droplet infection, other transmission routes are conceivable: Sars, a close relative of the new Coronavirus, was also transmitted to a lesser extent over surfaces. This means that someone who sneezes in their hands, for example, and then touches a doorknob, can infect another person who shortly thereafter takes the same doorknob in their hand and then grabs their mouth with their hand.
" Especially in the case of freshly infected, such lubricating infections are not excluded even in the current outbreak,"says Schmidt-Chanasit. However, one assumes a drop infection as the main route of transmission. In addition, the new Coronavirus is a cloaked virus. Such viruses are usually less stable in the environment, so they are unlikely to survive on surfaces for longer.
The elderly and the elderly appear to be particularly at risk
Early data suggest that the virus makes especially older people create. In an analysis of the first 425 confirmed cases, almost every second patient was 60 years or older (The New England Journal of Medicine: Li et al., 2020, PDF). And: men seem to be more affected than women after initial findings. In the study of Li and colleagues were 56 percent male, in another patient treated with 99 in a hospital in Wuhan even 67 percent (The Lancet: Chen et al., 2020). Each second of the 99 patients also suffered from a chronic disease, especially the cardiovascular system or the cerebral vessels. According to the researchers, older men with pre-existing illnesses could therefore be a special risk group.
Children are obviously not particularly at risk
Surprisingly rare, however, children seem to be affected by the infection with 2019-nCoV. Among the first 425 confirmed infected were none among 15-year-olds (The New England Journal of Medicine: Li et al., 2020, PDF). Whether they are less susceptible to the virus or have fewer complaints is still unclear." Children are usually over-represented in respiratory visions,"said the virologist Christian Drosten of the Frankfurt General Sunday newspaper. This means that you would normally expect more infections among children. Why it seems different with Sars, Mers and the new Coronavirus is not clear
Yeah. It was last known that an infected employee of Webasto had infected his two children. According to the Bavarian Ministry of Health, however, they are in a stable state of health. There is currently no reason to believe that children, especially without chronic pre-existing diseases, are particularly at risk of being infected with 2019-nCoV or its consequences.
The incubation time is known approximately
The incubation period is the time between the infection and the onset of the first symptoms. According to current data, it is on average about five days (The New England Journal of Medicine: Li et al., 2020, PDF). However, it can apparently only last two or up to 14 days.
How many people are infected, no one can say yet
Although more infected people are reported daily and included in the WHO statistics, no one knows how many people have actually contracted the new Coronavirus. This is also because many people with mild symptoms do not go to a doctor or hospital at all. Of course they will not appear in any statistics. And not everyone who goes to the doctor these days with symptoms of flu or bronchitis can and should be tested for the new pathogen according to current regulations. Experts such as Christian Drosten, a chariot virologist in Berlin and one of the discoverers of the Sars virus, assume that far more people are infected than previously known.
A team from the University of Hong Kong (The Lancet: Wu et al., 2020) has calculated in a scenario taking into account the previously confirmed cases, air traffic and traffic flows in Central China that occur in the Wuhan area up to 25. January more than 75.000 could have infected people. However, at the moment, such a calculation is associated with many uncertainties.
Yeah. Since little is known about the new virus, the researchers could only feed their computer model with rough assumptions." The extent to which the virus will spread depends crucially on the impact of the quarantine measures in China,"says the Hamburg virologist Schmidt-Chanasit. If they were really adhered to as strictly as is often reported, he believes it is possible to contain the outbreak." But it's hard to tell."
How deadly the virus is is further investigated
To find out how high the mortality is due to an infection with 2019-nCoV, you need to know two things. First, how many people are infected? And second, how many die? There is no definite answer to both, now in the middle of the outbreak. The proportion of deceased among the previously registered infected is approximately two percent. For a respiratory infection, that would be a pretty high percentage. Experts expect, however, that the more people tested, the two percent will decrease significantly in the course of the outbreak. For there will certainly be many of them with a mild course, which otherwise would not have been tested at all, i.e. would not have been statistically recorded. However, the two percent would so far prove to be "surprisingly stable", said Schmidt-Chanasit at TIME ONLINE. He expected the number to drop earlier. That this is not the case, however, is also due to the fact that not all tests have been evaluated yet. This could lead to an overestimation of mortality. This was the case, for example, during the influenza virus H1N1 pandemic in the 2009 and 2010 years. Initially, 59 fatalities were assumed in 850 suspected cases and thus an extremely high mortality rate of seven percent. When more data became available later, the death rate decreased to below 0.1 percent. Whether the death rate will develop similarly in the current outbreak must show further data
Yeah.
It is possible that the outbreak started in November
The Chinese authorities reported the first cases of new lung disease to the World Health Organisation at the end of December 2019. However, Chinese scientists report that at least one patient is already on 1st. In December the new virus was tested positively (The Lancet: Huang et al. 2020). It could have been infected in November. It is also appropriate that previously tested virus samples are genetically very similar, i.e. they are very likely related to a common ancestor. Researchers conclude that in a single event in November or December this virus could have been passed on to a person and has since been transmitted from person to person. So it could be that the epidemic started earlier than is often reported.
Patient zero must not have been infected on the market
The first person who infected an animal must not have caught the Coronavirus at the Huanan Seafood Market. In such markets, live animals are offered, including fish, seafood, poultry, but also wild birds, rats or snakes. What exactly was sold on the market in Wuhan is unclear, as is whether it was the origin of the outbreak. Certainly, the market has played a central role: Of 99 patients who were treated at the beginning of the outbreak in Wuhan for an infection with the Coronavirus 49 had contact with the market (The Lancet: Chen et al., 2020). Most of them had worked there, for example as sellers or managers. Experts believe it is possible that the market is not the place where the first animal-human transmission took place. For example, the patient who tested positive for 2019-nCoV in early December probably had no contact with the market
" It would be possible for an animal to be slaughtered and parts of it to be sold on the market, but parts elsewhere,"says Schmidt-Chanasit. In this way, it would be possible for one person to get infected elsewhere and other people to get infected on the market. On the other hand, it is not plausible that a person would smuggle the virus in and then infect more people or even animals. It is therefore unclear who the patient is zero of the outbreak, just as it is unclear whether the patient was infected on the market.
Whether bats directly infected humans is unclear
It is certain that large parts of the viral waste are identical to viruses that infect bats. At least the results so far do not contradict the fact that the virus could have been passed directly from bats to humans, said Virologist Schmidt-Chanasit. But there could also have been an intermediary host, another species of animal that infected bats and then infected humans again. In the case of Sars and Mers there was one such intermediary. Sars had kittens, Mers Dromedare. The Chinese researchers around Lu also assume this case. They write: "Although our stem tree analysis suggests that bats are the original host of these viruses, an animal sold on the fish market in Wuhan may have acted as a carrier." The team also writes in its work that no bats were sold on the market in Wuhan, without mentioning a source (The Lancet: Lu et al., 2020).
No one knows the potential intermediary
According to Schmidt-Chanasit, if there was an intermediary, it would have to be a mammal. The immune system of a reptile, for example a snake, was not similar enough to that of the bat and that of the human being that a transmission through snakes was plausible
" The barrier jump from a bat to a snake and then to humans would be too big,"says the virologist."The barrier jump from a bat to a snake This is absolutely unlikely."However, the exact species of animal is not yet known, nor can it simply be read out of the virus book. One possibility would be to test animals in the Wuhan region for viruses and to examine how similar they are to the samples from the patients. But it may also be, says Schmidt-Chanasit, that a possible landlord was only briefly infected." Not all animals of this species must carry the pathogen."This makes it all the more difficult to identify the possible intermediary. It could also be that you never find out.
Blood, semen or faeces as a means of transmission are not excluded
In addition to the infection caused by droplets of sneezing or coughing, it would also be possible to get infected by other bodily fluids. At least in the excrements of some infected remains of the pathogen's inheritance, such as in stool samples (New England Journal of Medicine: Holshue et al., 2020). Infection with faeces, however, seems to play a much smaller role than over droplets, if at all. Unlike with sars, fewer people seem to have diarrhoea with the new corona virus: with sars, it was probably ten to 20 percent. Of 99 patients treated at a clinic in Wuhan for the new Coronavirus had only two diarrhoea (The Lancet: Chen et al., 2020)." In addition, positive viral evidence in the chair or anal smear does not necessarily mean that the virus has lived and could infect others with it,"says Virologist Schmidt-Chanasit. This evidence is still pending. However, it is possible that 2019-nCoV could multiply not only in the lung, but also in the intestine and other parts of the body." That wouldn't be unusual either.
"This can be ascertained by examining the tissues of patients who have died as a result of the virus during autopsies. Peter Collignon, a professor of medicine at the University of Canberra, also believes that an infection via the gastrointestinal tract cannot be ruled out. The Bloomberg news platform said, "We have to be open-minded."
It is not known in which phases infected are infectious
Whether people can infect other people during the incubation period, even though they have no complaints at all, could decide how the outbreak continues. The first case in Germany initially suggested that this might be the case. During a business trip, a Chinese woman is said to have infected an employee of the car supplier Webasto in Bavaria, although she has not yet noticed any symptoms, as scientists on the 30th. In January written in a report in the New England Journal of Medicine (Rothe et al., 2020). In the meantime, it has become apparent that this information was wrong. According to a report in the magazine Science, the authors had not asked the woman themselves if she had any complaints during her stay in Germany, but had first relied on statements from several Webasto employees.
It was only later that the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) and the Bavarian National Office for Health and Food Safety contacted the woman in Shanghai and learned from her that she probably had mild symptoms after all. This was confirmed by the RKI against TIME ONLINE. Therefore, the patient had unspecific symptoms such as back pain and took a fever-reducing medicine. The RKI subsequently corrected the publication in the New England Journal of Medicine, according to its own information.
All this does not mean that there is no asymptomatic transmission, there is just no definite knowledge about it.
Yeah. Based on the data available to date, the WHO assumes that the virus is mainly spread by infected people who also have complaints. However, there is still insufficient research into the extent to which people who experience symptoms such as mild colds are already contagious.
Here more about the new Coronavirus, its possible origin and the epidemic.
