The threat posed by the Coronavirus to people in Germany seems to be low so far. However, travel restrictions and concern about declining trade flows could affect economic performance.
The global stock market is mirroring the uncertainty that has arisen in the face of the spread of the virus. Companies try to protect their employees from infection.
TOURISMUS: China is rather a small market for German organisers. The German Travel Association pointed out that every year, about 600 000 to 650 000 people travel from Germany to China. About two thirds of them are business travellers. Guests from China are of greater importance for German tourism. According to recent data 2018, about three million overnight stays were counted by Chinese travellers in hotels, pensions and other accommodation. They thus occupied 12th place in the ranking of foreign vacationers. The main travel season is the summer months. The consequences of travel restrictions depend on how long they remain in force.
REISEVERZICHT: After the infection of two employees with the virus, the Bavarian car supplier Webasto has temporarily suspended business trips both to China and within China. At the company headquarters in Stockdorf south-west of Munich, the 1000-year-old colleagues employed there are free to work at home. It had previously become known that an employee in Stockdorf had been infected with the new Coronavirus by a Chinese colleague from Shanghai.
Other German companies also limited business travel to and from China, including Thyssenkrupp, Schaeffler's car supplier, Covestro, BMW, Audi and Siemens.
The software manufacturer SAP also closes its offices in China beyond the New Year holidays. The employees could work from home during the time
Yeah. The trading group Metro has set up body temperature control points in its four major markets in the metropolis of Wuhan, the commercial giant reported on Tuesday. This is how employees and customers are to be discovered with fever.
Air transport: airlines could suffer particularly from the fear of the Coronavirus. The concerns of the travellers and the complaints of the employers are already lowering the booking figures at Lufthansa. "We are experiencing a slight decline in booking behaviour on flights to and from China," said a Lufthansa spokesman Tuesday in Frankfurt. Lufthansa's stock was also under pressure on Tuesday. In the afternoon, she was almost one percent down.
MESSEN: The world's largest toy fair in Nuremberg is expecting fewer visitors from China this year in view of the Coronavirus outbreak. That is why, and because of the New Year's Festival, fewer Chinese are likely to attend this year's fair, said Messechef Ernst Kick on Tuesday at the edge of the news show. More 360 of the 3000 exhibitors come from China. They are thus the second largest group.
HILFE: The pharmaceutical company Bayer has donated medicines and money in the total value of 1,5 million euro to fight the virus in China. The recipient is the Chinese Red Cross. The medicines, from the antibiotic to the vitamin C preparation, had already been delivered.
The fear of the economic consequences of the spread of the virus led to a weak start of the week on Wall Street. The Dow Jones index closed on Monday with a minus of 1,57 percent at 28 535,80 points. The German leading index Dax has been more or less on the ground since three weeks on Tuesday following the previous day's correction.
OIL PRICES: Oil prices dropped slightly on Tuesday, thus continuing the descent of past trading days. Also on the oil market, the Coronavirus remained the dominant theme
Yeah.
GOLD: The uncertainty surrounding the corona virus should also support the gold price. However, this is influenced by many factors. The precious metal was traded on Tuesday at 1580 dollars a fine nun. (dpa)
