In China, the number of deaths caused by the new Coronavirus has risen again. The
The Health Committee of the GOC announced that 26 people had died of diseases caused by the agent. Other 1.072 disease cases suspected to have been caused by the virus, but these cases were still being investigated. Overall, as reported by the GOC in its new balance sheet, the number of registered diseases from 644 to 830 increased. The previous report
The authorities had reported 18-deaths and about 570 cases of disease.
Despite the rapid spread of the virus in China, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has not yet declared a "health emergency of international importance". A council of experts, which advises the WHO, saw no reason for this on Thursday." It is not the right time,"said the chairman of the emergency committee, Didier Houssin. There are so far few cases abroad and China has already taken far-reaching measures of its own.
The health organisation hopes that China's actions are "effective and short-term," said WHO Director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. The WHO takes the outbreak extremely seriously. There is no emergency yet, but that could change, said Ghebreyesus. The WHO does not currently recommend any travel or trade restrictions. The Foreign Office in Berlin advised to postpone unnecessary travel to the affected areas. The risk to German travellers in Wuhan is assessed as "moderate".
Other patients infected with the Coronavirus have also been reported from other countries. A new suspicion of infection has been reported in the USA
Yeah. A patient in Texan Brazos County, who had left the Chinese city of Wuhan, was possibly infected with the virus, the authorities reported. The diagnosis has not yet been confirmed. The man was temporarily isolated in his home until a blood test could clarify.
On Tuesday, a first case of the Coronavirus was confirmed in the United States. A patient who had also travelled from Wuhan contacted the authorities near the capital Seattle itself. The man's better now. He's about to be released from the hospital.
A second case of lung disease has also been reported in Japan. The man in his 40s comes from the Chinese capital Wuhan, the Ministry of Health reported. He was visiting Japan and is being treated in a hospital in Tokyo, it was said. A few days earlier, another Chinese agent had already been tested positive for the pathogen. The man living in Tokyo's neighbouring province of Kanagawa had returned to Japan after a visit to Wuhan. He's been released from the clinic.
Six months before the Olympic Games began in Tokyo, Japan stepped up its precautions against the new virus." We will do our utmost to prevent the spread of infections,"said Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Companies operating in Wuhan urged their employees to stay at home.
At the end of 2019, the Chinese authorities reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) a frequency of pneumonia of unclear cause in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. Already a week later, Chinese researchers identified a novel virus as the cause of the disease. It belongs to the group of Coronavires. A few days later, a group around the virologist Christian Drosten of the Berlin Charite published the first diagnostic test for the new virus, which researchers provisionally call 2019-nCoV
Yeah. The test can be used to detect the virus in the laboratory. As a source of the pathogen, the Chinese authorities suspect a food market in Wuhan, where, in addition to fish and seafood, exotic animals such as snakes were sold. The market was closed and disinfected.
Both the respiratory diseases Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and Mers (Middle East respiratory syndrome) are caused by coronary viruses that originate in animals. During the Sars pandemic, in the years 2002 and 2003, about 8.000 people died, more than 750. The Mers virus has infected people from its discovery 2012 to the end of the year 2019 about 2.500, and every third person has died from it. Overall, however, there are several hundred types of coronavirus. Many of them affect the airways and can cause, for example, colds.
In China, several thousand people are now ill, some of them, most likely pre-infected, have died of pneumonia caused by the virus. The first infections outside China were known in Thailand, Japan and South Korea. These are travellers who had previously been to Wuhan. I have 21. In January, US authorities reported the first infection in a tourist who returned from Wuhan on the 24th. In January, the first cases in France became known. In the meantime, the first cases in Germany have also been confirmed. Typical signs of infection are fever, cough and difficulty breathing. The virus can cause pneumonia that can end in death. Because it's a viral disease, antibiotics don't help.
It is now clear that the virus can be transmitted from human to human. The Chinese authorities have confirmed several such transfers after about a dozen medical personnel cases have been reported.
Yeah. Doctors assume that the virus is mainly transmitted via droplet infection. The World Health Organization, like it does on 24th. January, currently reporting that an infected person in sections 1,4 to 2,5 infects other people. If these numbers persist, the virus is less contagious than Sars and also the virus flu. The WHO recommends to observe general hygiene rules: wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people with respiratory diseases and wild animals.
There's no way to say for sure yet. The World Health Organization shared on 28. In January, approximately one fifth of the reported cases are seriously affected by the virus, so in case of doubt intensive medical treatment is required. According to reports, the first victims were patients who had some severe pre-existing diseases. Other infectious diseases also pose a particular risk to people with pre-existing diseases, such as influenza. Coronaviruses are known to mutate, so they can change their heritage. This may lead to them becoming more dangerous to humans during an outbreak, but also to the exact opposite. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) does not currently expect a mortality rate similar to that of the Sars outbreak.
The Chinese capital Beijing knitted all major events and temple festivals on the occasion of the Chinese New Year's Eve on Saturday. The tourism authority announced that "the accumulation of people should be reduced".
Prior to that, China had quarantined virtually millions of people in the fight against the disease just before the New Year's feast. The authorities are recalling the eleven million-capital city of Wuhan, where most cases have occurred. The total number of cities affected by severe restrictions, including Wuhans, rose from five to at least eight
Yeah. For example, Lichuan, Xianning and Huangshi also announced to stop bus lines and other local traffic. All the cities concerned are located in the province of Hubei.
Outside China, apart from the USA and Japan, individual cases from Thailand, South Korea and Taiwan have so far been reported.
