Quikening pigs, whimpering dogs, poultry, fish and crowded people. Such a market in Wuhan could have played a decisive role in the current Coronavir outbreak. Christian Walzer, veterinarian and wildlife conservation society (WCS), on the consequences of wildlife trade.
ONLINE TIME: It seems she came overnight, the new plague. It is not yet known how dangerous the pathogen that has spread from Wuhan to China and has occasionally reached Germany is. It is clear that the lung disease is caused by a Coronavirus called 2019-nCoV. Where does such a new virus come from so suddenly?
Christian Walzer: Most of the new infectious diseases affecting humans are zoonoses. This is what scientists call diseases whose pathogens pass from animals to humans. Whether a virus specialises in bats, dogs, birds or humans, virologists can recognize its heritage. The genome of the new Coronavirus has already been sequenced (The Lancet: Lu et al., 2020) and suggests that it was initially housed by bats and then transmitted to humans via a currently unknown wild animal (Biorxiv: Benvenuto et al., 2020).
ONLINE TIME: So the first infected in China caught it in an animal?
Walzer: The pathogen originates from one or more wildlife markets in Wuhan, Hubei Province, Central China. There is no doubt about that now.
ONLINE TIME: Meanwhile, some scientists are questioning the theory that the market was the sole source of the virus, not all of the first patients are said to have been there.
At the end of 2019, the Chinese authorities reported to the World Health Organisation WHO a frequency of pneumonia of unclear cause in the central Chinese city of Wuhan
Yeah. Already a week later, Chinese researchers identified a novel virus as the cause of the disease. It belongs to the group of Coronavires. A few days later, a group around the virologist Christian Drosten of the Berlin Charite published the first diagnostic test for the new virus, which researchers provisionally call 2019-nCoV. The test can be used to detect the virus in the laboratory. As a source of the pathogen, the Chinese authorities suspect a food market in Wuhan, where, in addition to fish and seafood, exotic animals such as snakes were sold. The market was closed and disinfected.
Both the respiratory diseases Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and Mers (Middle East respiratory syndrome) are caused by coronary viruses that originate in animals. During the Sars pandemic, in the years 2002 and 2003, about 8.000 people died, more than 750. The Mers virus has infected people from its discovery 2012 to the end of the year 2019 about 2.500, and every third person has died from it. Overall, however, there are several hundred types of coronavirus. Many of them affect the airways and can cause, for example, colds.
In China, several thousand people are now ill, some of them, most likely pre-infected, have died of pneumonia caused by the virus. The first infections outside China were known in Thailand, Japan and South Korea. These are travellers who had previously been to Wuhan. I have 21. In January, US authorities reported the first infection in a tourist who returned from Wuhan on the 24th. In January, the first cases in France became known. In the meantime, the first cases in Germany have also been confirmed. Typical signs of infection are fever, cough and difficulty breathing. The virus can cause pneumonia that can end in death
Yeah. Because it's a viral disease, antibiotics don't help.
It is now clear that the virus can be transmitted from human to human. The Chinese authorities have confirmed several such transmissions after about a dozen medical personnel have been notified. Doctors assume that the virus is mainly transmitted via droplet infection. The World Health Organization, like it does on 24th. January, currently reporting that an infected person in sections 1,4 to 2,5 infects other people. If these numbers persist, the virus is less contagious than Sars and also the virus flu. The WHO recommends to observe general hygiene rules: wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people with respiratory diseases and wild animals.
There's no way to say for sure yet. The World Health Organization shared on 28. In January, approximately one fifth of the reported cases are seriously affected by the virus, so in case of doubt intensive medical treatment is required. According to reports, the first victims were patients who had some severe pre-existing diseases. Other infectious diseases also pose a particular risk to people with pre-existing diseases, such as influenza. Coronaviruses are known to mutate, so they can change their heritage. This may lead to them becoming more dangerous to humans during an outbreak, but also to the exact opposite. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) does not currently expect a mortality rate similar to that of the Sars outbreak.
Walzer: It is fairly certain that the new virus was circulating on the market in Wuhan in Hubei Province.* Among the 99 first patients who first noticed the diseases 49 people had a connection to the market in Wuhan (The Lancet: Chen et al., 2020)
Yeah. 47 of them had a long-term exposure history as a seller or market manager. However, it is still unclear whether other markets or wildlife contacts are also partly responsible.
ONLINE TIME: This is not the first time virus strains have been transmitted from animals to humans. What consequences has this had in the past?
Walzer: Zoonotic diseases occur again and again. The causes of Sars, Mers and Ebola were particularly well known. The Ebola virus is likely to spread from several wild animals, including monkeys. People are usually infected by contact with Bushmeat, i.e. meat of wild animals. Sars and Mers are both lung diseases and, as is currently the case in China, are caused by coronary viruses. The agent of Mers was traced to droids in the Middle East. The Sars virus was probably transmitted to humans in an animal market, a classic origin, one might say. (Emerging Infectious Diseases: Xu et al., 2004).
ONLINE TIME: Viruses sometimes sleep in their animal reservoirs for decades, so they are never completely gone. What needs to come together so that zoonosis really leads to an outbreak, as in the case of 2019-nCoVt?
Walzer: First there must be contact between man and animal. Then the coincidence decides: Many animal viruses can't harm humans because the pathogens can't penetrate human cells. But viruses change all the time. Random changes in their heritage, so-called mutations, can cause a virus to suddenly develop in such a way that it can penetrate human cells: structures on the surface of the virus then fit like a key into the structures of human cells, the receptors, and thus open the way for the pathogens to the inside of the cell
Yeah.
ONLINE TIME: And then?
Walzer: Once the way into the body cells has been made, the viruses can multiply in one person's organism, cause damage and then, in some cases, infect others again. In order for zoonoses to become a dangerous pandemic, i.e. a worldwide outbreak, a virus coming from the animal must not only be able to infect people; it must also be able to become transmissible from person to person. The new Coronavirus did it.
ONLINE TIME: And the market in Wuhan was best placed for all this to happen?
Walzer: Definitely. The more people and animals come into contact, the more viruses can pass from one species to another. In markets such as the one in Wuhan, viruses from animals and humans mix, they exchange their heritage among themselves, so that new mixtures can arise again and again. There is a high probability that one of them will eventually mutate into a dangerous and contagious variant and jump to humans.
TIME ONLINE: Conservatives have been fighting for a long time against markets where wild animals are traded. In addition to pets and farm animals, wild animals also sell endangered and protected species, such as sheepherds, also called pangolins, rare reptiles and birds. That, too, would be a reason to close it.
Walzer: Yes, just like the fact that they offer the best conditions for the emergence of viruses like 2019-nCoV. The trade in wild animals must finally stop. In the markets, illegal trade takes place in the shadow of the permitted. In particular, we should ban markets in large cities where people do not need to eat wild animal meat. The wildlife trade in China is largely reserved for the rich anyway. Poor people can't afford something like the relatively expensive bats.
ONLINE TIME: Such a demand encounters cultural obstacles
Yeah. Do we in the West have the right to impose a ban on China's traditional markets?
Walzer: I think the new virus 2019-nCoV and the Sars virus have shown that there are problems for countries around the world in these markets. During the Sars pandemic between 2002 and 2003, more than 900 people died worldwide and the cost to the world economy was estimated to nearly 40 billion US dollars (National Academies Press: Lee et al., 2004). At least 106 people have already died of 2019-nCoV infections. The cost of global health justifies politicians going to China, Laos or Vietnam to talk to them about the dangers of the wildlife markets.
ONLINE TIME: China has now put a stop to the trade in wildlife, at least nationally and temporarily. Wild animals are still exported to other parts of the world. Should states in Europe react?
Waltz: The legal trade of wild animals to Europe is generally very low and heavily regulated, including in terms of hygiene standards. I see no need to permanently ban this legal trade. Of course, action should be taken against the illegal trade in exotic animals, but their contribution to the creation of zoonoses is also rather small.
TIME ONLINE: What other measures do you consider useful to prevent the outbreak of new dangerous diseases?
Walzer: Information and information are particularly important. I think it could do some good if the population learns more about the problems caused by their eating habits. It is not only a question of health risks, but also of wildlife dying out as a result.
*Note from the editorial staff: As the statement that the new virus has been proven in samples from the market could not yet be clearly confirmed, we have first removed the post
Yeah.
Read in this section: How contagious is the Coronavirus?
