According to Chinese media reports, the doctor who created the Coronavirus is due on 30th. For the first time in December, the authorities were informed of the consequences of lung disease.
The 34-year-old Li Wenliang worked at the Central Hospital in Wuhan and was the first to draw attention to the novel virus. He and seven other members of a medical group had first been summoned and warned by the police after their warning and had to sign that they no longer reveal anything about the outbreak. I got ten. In January he got sick himself. The Coronavirus didn't start until the 30th. January with him.
Most of the people who died as a result of the virus are older than 60's, many even over 80's. It is not yet known why the 34-year-old doctor died and whether there were complications.
The Chinese party newspaper Global Times had confirmed the death of the physician. State television also reported Li Wenliang's death. The 34-year-old leaves a young family: his wife is pregnant with the second child.
There has also been another infection in Germany. The wife of an infected man has also contracted the Coronavirus. As a result, the total number of viral infections has increased to thirteen, eleven in connection with the Bavarian company Webasto and two in the case of returnees from China.
The most recent viral findings came from the 38-year-old wife of one of the patients from Bavaria, as reported by the Bavarian Ministry of Health. In the past few days it had already become known that two children of the couple also infected themselves. In the case of the third child of the couple, a infant, the virus has not yet been proven, said the medical director of the clinics of Southeast Bavaria AG, Stefan Paech.
The whole family is in quarantine at the Comstberger Klinikum of Southeast Bavaria AG. She wanted to stay together on her own request
" We assumed from the beginning that the whole family was already infected,"Paech said. This was confirmed by the findings, which came in piece by piece. The fact that the mother was only tested positively now is because the reaction time was different.
The decision was also made to leave the baby with the family, especially as the processes are very mild at this age, Paech said. There was a balance: "Child segregation versus the possible risk of a mild clinical course. We have made this decision in consultation with the paediatricians, and it has been confirmed t hat this was the right course of action."The family is doing reasonably well under the circumstances, although the situation of quarantine is stressful. According to Paech, the couple's two older children had only mild symptoms. The father's health was stable. He's being treated with antivirals.
So far, all the corona cases in Bavaria are related to Webasto. There, an employee of a Chinese colleague had contracted it, who flew back to China shortly thereafter. The German Corona patient on the Spanish island of La Gomera also had contact with a Webasto employee, as reported by the National Office for Health and Food Safety (LGL).
In addition to the eleven cases in Bavaria, there are two other people across Germany where the virus has been detected. Both had been tested after having been taken together with more than 120 other travellers from China to Germany last weekend.
Meanwhile, a survey by the opinion research institute Infratest dimap showed that nine out of ten Germans are not afraid of the virus. 89 percent claimed not to be afraid that they or family members might get infected. For seven percent of respondents the fear was "great" and for three percent "very great"
Yeah.
A large number of respondents also showed great confidence in the local authorities and health institutions: four out of five respondents felt that they had the situation under control overall. 14% said, in their view, that the institutions were not in control of the situation.
