The novel lung disease in China can also be transmitted from person to person. In addition, a team of experts from the Chinese Health Commission reported that infections were confirmed by medical personnel.
For two cases in Guangdong Province, a human-to-human transmission was proven, said the team leader, Zhong Nanshan.
For experts, it is an important indicator of whether doctors and carers are affected by a new disease: if many of them become infected, it is a clear indication of a slight transferability from person to person. For the new Sars virus variant, probably transmitted from wild animals to humans, it was initially assumed that there were no or hardly any transmissions from human to human.
The number of confirmed infections in China increased rapidly to around 220. Another patient died. Three deaths are known, as reported by the health authority of the central Chinese metropolis of Wuhan. That's where the outbreak started. For the first time, infections with the Coronavirus have been detected in several other locations in both North and South China. There is also evidence of people in Thailand, Japan and South Korea who were previously in Wuhan. No cases brought by travellers have been known to date in Europe.
With the current wave of travel to the Chinese New Year's Eve next Saturday, the risk of transmission of the virus is growing. With the largest annual migration of people, several hundred million Chinese are on the move. Asian neighbours and several airports in other countries around the world have introduced fever controls on entry from Wuhan. On Monday, Italy also moved on: suspicions on board Rome-Fiumicino of landing aircraft from Wuhan would be investigated in the future, the Ministry of Health said
Yeah. Pilots should therefore report passengers with appropriate symptoms. They would then be taken immediately to the National Institute for Infectious Diseases in Rome, it was said.
China's head of state and party Xi Jinping first responded to the health crisis on Monday and gave instructions to curb the spread of the disease vigorously. The safety of people and their physical health have "absolute priority", state television quoted him as saying.
Except in the city of Wuhan, where there are most confirmed cases, patients in the southern province of Guangdong as well as in Beijing in the north and Shanghai have been reported. In addition, suspected cases have been reported in several other cities. Of the patients previously recorded in the 11-million-city of Wuhan, 35 were seriously ill, nine of them in critical condition.
According to analysts of the inheritance, the Berlin virus researcher Christian Drosten concluded that the organism was a Sars variant. A Sars virus from China, starting 2002/2003, resulted in a worldwide pandemic with 8000 infected people, about 800 people dying.
Experts at Imperial College London assume that the new disease is already much more widespread than previously known. By their reckoning, there could already be more than 1700 infected. "Such estimates are always fraught with great uncertainties," Drosten said. "But at heart I believe in these figures."
The first infections are associated with a closed fish market in Wuhan, where wild animals were also sold. Also the Sars agent of 2002/2003 was most likely passed on from a wild animal to humans, presumed sources are kittens. The Chinese authorities had already hypothesized what kind of animal the new pathogen could have passed on to humans, virus researchers had recently explained threats
Yeah. "But this is not officially announced until it is considered safe."
Coronaviruses often cause harmless diseases such as colds; however, they also include agents of dangerous respiratory diseases such as Sars and Mers. Sars stands for "Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome", meaning severe acute respiratory syndrome. At the time of the Sars pandemic 2002/2003, the outbreak was initially covered up, which had prevented a rapid reaction and favoured its spread.
The World Health Organisation has not yet issued any travel warnings for tourists. The American health authority CDC advised travellers to Wuhan only to avoid animal markets and contact with animals or sick persons. (dpa)
