The team around Camilla Rothe from the Munich University Clinic in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) points out two peculiarities: on the one hand, the Chinese employee who caused the outbreak felt at least unspecific symptoms at the time. On the other hand, there was the possibility that people may still be infectious even after their recovery.
The source of the pathogen was, as is known, a woman from Shanghai who supplied the Webasto automobile supplier in Bavaria from 19th. to 22. He visited and participated in company meetings in January. A later survey showed that they were on the 20th. January felt a little warm, but not feverish. To be fit the next day, she took a pill. I have 21. She was therefore tired in the afternoon and had mild muscle pain under pressure. On the day she left, she froze something in her light business clothes until she put on a scarf.
Not until the evening of the 23rd. In January she felt really sick, and had a temperature of about 38 degrees, which rose to 38.7 degrees until the evening of the following day. According to the authors it became on 26. January tested positive for the pathogen. I have 27. She informed the company about her illness, and their contacts were checked, including in Bavaria.
Meanwhile, according to the report, the first German patient, a 33-year-old Webasto employee, had a 24-year-old. January noted neck pain, chills and muscle pain. One day later, cough and 39,1 degree fever followed. The night of the 26th. In January he felt better and returned at 27th. back to work before the pathogen was detected in him.
I have 28th. In January, three other employees of the company were tested positively, but only one of them, according to the study, had had had contact with the Chinese woman.
Yeah. The other two employees were infected by the 33-year-old, writes the team, which includes not only Munich doctors but also Coronavirus expert Christian Drosten of the Berlin Charite. In addition, the 33-year-old heritage of the Coronaviruses had been proven when it was already feeling healthy.
"The fact that people without symptoms were possible sources of the 2019-nCoV infection can justify a reassessment of the transmission dynamics of the current outbreak," the team writes. "In this context, the detection of 2019-nCoV and a high viral load in the sputum in a cured patient raises concerns about the spread of 2019-nCoV after recovery."
The team stresses, however, that the functionality of the proven viruses still needs to be demonstrated in the laboratory. The researchers report that the four German patients described in the study had only mild symptoms. They were only treated for public health concerns in hospitals. Overall, until Friday 13 cases were proven in Germany: eleven of them in Bavaria are related to the outbreak described. Two more people who have been taken back from China are being treated in Frankfurt/Main. (dpa)
