After the outbreak of the Coronavirus, the first foreign deaths were confirmed in China. As the US Embassy in Beijing reported on Saturday, a 60-year-old US citizen infected with the virus arrived in the particularly badly affected city of Wuhan on the 6th. February for life. The victim's gender left the message open.
A Japanese man also died in Wuhan, according to the Japanese Foreign Ministry. According to this, it was a man in his 60s who was suspected of being infected with the virus, who suffered from severe pneumonia.
The number of confirmed infections and deaths due to the virus increased sharply again until Saturday. The number of patients in which the virus was detected climbed to 34.546 within a day of 3399. The Health Commission in Beijing reported this.
The newly proven infections thus increased again compared to the day before, after they had decreased slightly in the last two days. The number of deaths also increased significantly by 86 to 722. Only the province of Hubei, where the virus had originally broken out in the city of Wuhan, reported 81 new deaths. Outside mainland China, there are more than two dozen cases over 270, of which 14 in Germany.
At the weekend the German government wants to bring back more Germans with some relatives from Wuhan. There are "individuals" who did not report to the airport until after the return flight last Saturday or did not make it to the airport in time, the Foreign Office said on Thursday evening. "We are making an intensive effort to allow these people to leave as well." Overall, about 20 people are expected to come to Germany. Perhaps they can go out with a larger group of Brits. They are to be quarantined according to "Mirrors" in a clinic in Berlin-Copenhagen
Yeah.
Due to the new lung disease, the German army had already brought back Germans and their relatives from the town of Wuhan, which was heavily affected by the Coronavirus, in early February. Around 120 passengers of the flight have been quarantined since their return to a barracks in the Palatinate Germersheim. The virus had been detected in two passengers and isolation is also necessary because the disease can break out until two weeks after the infection.
Meanwhile, the number of people tested positive for the Coronavirus on board a quarantined cruise ship in Japanese Yokohama has increased by three to 64. The Japanese Ministry of Health announced this on Saturday. A person is in a critical condition. In addition to the previously known cases, two Americans and one Chinese were tested positive and taken to hospitals. According to the Japanese authorities, the quarantine of the Diamond Princess with around 3700 passengers and crew members is provisional until 19. February.
On Saturday, the Chinese Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong stepped up its efforts to prevent the spread of the virus. The authorities imposed a mandatory quarantine for all travellers from mainland China. Hong Kong people returning from China must therefore stay at home for a 14-day period. Other visitors can spend time in hotels. Tracking bracelets are then used to check whether the quarantine is being observed. Those who violate the regulations can be sentenced to a six-month prison sentence and a fine. (dpa)
