Coimbra and Faro began to have teams from the National Medical Emergency Institute (INEM) to transport to the reference hospitals the people suspected of being infected with the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV), this Thursday announced the entity.
The reinforcement of transport with two more teams, one in Faro and one in Coimbra, has taken place since Wednesday and was announced this Thursday by INEM President Luis Meira at a press conference in Lisbon, where a new assessment was made of the infection with 2010-nCov, which was detected in China in December.
Before, transport to the reference hospitals of the people suspected of being infected with the new coronavirus was only provided by two teams in Lisbon and Oporto.
According to the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health (DGS), the suspicious cases, which are validated by three doctors, are referred by INEM to three reference hospitals: Curry Cabral Hospital and Dona Estefania Hospital in Lisbon, and St. John's Hospital in Oporto.
The four suspicious cases that have been validated to date in Portugal have given negative results for the presence of the new coronavirus, which may cause viral pneumonia.
Luis Meira, who spoke at the headquarters of the DGS, accompanied by the Director General of Health, Grace Freitas, said that the "strengthening of measures is being prepared and planned" in line with the evolution of the outbreak, denying the lack of protective material for the teams ensuring transport to the reference hospitals.
China rose this Thursday to 563 dead and over 28 thousand infected with the balance sheet of the coronary outbreak 2019-nCoV, identified in December in the city of Wuhan, placed under quarantine.
In addition to the mainland of China and the regions of Macao and Hong Kong, cases of infection have been confirmed in more than twenty countries.
Yeah.
A week ago, the World Health Organisation declared the new coronavirus outbreak an international public health emergency due to the high risk of the global spread of 2019-nCoV.
The international emergency requires the adoption of preventive and coordinated measures worldwide.
