The Portuguese to be removed from Wuhan will be evaluated on arrival in Portugal to determine the risk of exposure to the new coronavirus and only then will any social isolation measures be taken, explained this Tuesday to Lusa the Director General for Health.
France's health minister, Agnes Buzyn, said today that the French who are to be removed from this Chinese city, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak (2019-nCoV), who do not show symptoms will be kept in a place of confinement for 14 days, the estimated maximum duration of the incubation of the disease, to ensure they haven't been infected by the virus.
Asked by Lusa about whether Portugal will take an identical measure, the Director-General for Health, Grace Freitas, said that it will not be so restrictive: what is usually done is the person's "epidemiological history".
"The first thing we have to understand when they arrive is the risk that they may have contracted an infection. If the risk is too small no action is taken," he said.
Responding that the Portuguese authorities are always reviewing risk-based procedures, the Director General for Health recalled the procedures adopted in the case of influenza A with the first cases that came from Mexico.
"We asked people who came with asymptomatics, who may or may not be incubating the virus, to do voluntary social isolation," that is, to stay in a room alone and have minimal contact with people.
But, I stressed, "the initial story is that it will determine the risk and in the light of that risk it is that social isolation measures are advised".
"If the Portuguese have already been in their homes in Wuhan for the past four days, had no contact with people or animals, were not exposed to anything, have no symptoms, there is no reason to place them in social isolation", said Grace Freitas
Yeah.
For the head of the Portuguese health authority, these'common sense measures should be taken'.
He also recalled that a person only goes to the hospital if they have symptoms. However, it was linked, the authorities keep in touch with these people to make sure they have no symptoms.
"So far, the Portuguese protocol is thus and follows the guidelines of the World Health Organisation", he concluded.
Portugal has already activated public health devices due to the coronavirus from China and has alerted St John's Hospital in Porto, Curry Cabral and Stephania in Lisbon.
In Portugal, established protocols for gender situations have been activated, by reinforcing the Health Service 24 line, by means of number 8002424, and the medical support line, for screening and preventing people from filling the health centres and emergency rooms of hospitals in the event of possible contagion.
Some countries, such as the United States, Japan, France, Germany and Portugal, are preparing with the Chinese authorities to withdraw their citizens from Wuhan, where there are also two dozen Portuguese.
The Portuguese Government has already announced that it wants to remove by air the Portuguese detained in Wuhan.
China raised to 106 dead and more than four.000 infected the balance of the new coronavirus detected at the end of the year in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (center).
Infected persons may transmit the disease during the incubation period, which takes between one day and two weeks, without the virus being detected.
