The Wuhan health authorities in central China admitted this Wednesday the possibility that the respiratory disease that killed a person and infected 40 is transmissible between humans.
In a statement published on the official portal, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission explained that, although there is no case of contagion between proven humans, the possibility of "limited" occurrence cannot be ruled out.
Local authorities stressed, however, that "the risk of infection among humans is low".
Cases of viral pneumonia have raised fears about a potential epidemic after an investigation has identified the disease a s a new type of coronavirus, a kind of virus that causes respiratory infections in humans and animals and are transmitted through cough, sneezing or physical contact.
Some of these viruses result only in a cold, while others may generate more serious respiratory diseases, such a s atypical pneumonia, or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which between 2002 and 2003 killed more than eight thousand people worldwide.
The virus broadcast alert was issued after the first case detected outside China was known this week, that of a Thai who visited Wuhan.
The investigation suggested that the disease originated in a shellfish market located in the suburbs of Wuhan, a city in central China and an important domestic and international transport centre.
More than 700 of these people who have maintained "close contact" with the infected are being monitored, in addition to medical staff who initially treated patients without adequate protection. The period of quarantine and observation established by the authorities is 14 days, the Commission explained.
Among the 41 infected people with new viral pneumonia, a 61-year-old man died last week.
Yeah. Seven others are in critical condition, Wuhan's health authorities said.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) announced on Monday that measures to prevent and control infection were implemented in hospitals around the world, in the light of the new coronavirus and the possibility of an epidemic.
For the time being, the WHO has not issued alerts on visits to Wuhan, nor has it established an emergency committee for this disease.
According to one agency spokesperson, Chinese laboratories have already sequenced the coronavirus genome and provided data to the global health community to help diagnose possible cases outside the country.
According to WHO, between 14 and 15% of SARS cases end in death, while in the case of Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), a disease also caused by a coronavirus, the number increases to 35%.
So far, the symptoms described for Wuhan's viral pneumonia ar e fever and fatigue, accompanied by a dry cough and, in many cases, shortness of breath.
