A group of Chinese businessmen based in Portugal lamented this Thursday the increase in the price of surgical masks at Portuguese pharmacies when they are donating medical supplies to stem the outbreak of a new coronavirus in China.
Businessman Xia Yu said the price of a box with 50 surgical masks can cost up to 25-euros, almost ten times the original price. I understand that the market is working, but an increase in this proportion at a time like this is unreasonable,"he said.
The entrepreneur showed Lusa an invoice worth almost 1.800 euros, for a total of 110 boxes of surgical masks, at an extra expense of 435 euros on shipping ports.
The People's Republic of China is going through a serious public health crisis after a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV), detected last December in the city of Wuhan, has already caused 563 dead and infected more than 28 thousand people.
In a rare gesture, the Chinese Government has this week called for help from the rest of the world, in view of the urgent need to replenish supplies of masks, suits or protective goggles, in order to contain the epidemic. Beijing thanked several countries, including France, the United Kingdom, Japan and South Korea, for sending medical supplies.
"We note that prices have risen all over the country, which makes it impossible to make more donations," Xia lamented. We believe that most Portuguese are kind and considerate, so we choose to live here,"he stressed.
Also in China some supermarkets are charging up to ten times the original price and there have been complaints about criminal groups selling masks used as new
Yeah.
The Chinese Ministry of Industry acknowledged this week that the costume manufacturing plants are only operating at 70% maximum capacity, as the epidemic occurred at the same time as the Lunar New Year holiday, which the government has extended to limit the risk of contagion.
The country increased imports of masks from Europe, Japan and the United States, according to the same source.
The vast majority of deaths and cases of infection with the new coronavirus are concentrated in Hubei province, whose capital is Wuhan.
By January 23, Wuhan was placed under quarantine, with exits and entrances forbidden by authorities for an indefinite period. The measure was, however, extended to fifteen more Chinese cities close to Wuhan, affecting more than fifty million people as a whole.
Doctors from all over China have been sent to the region, where hotels and stadiums are being converted to hospitals, to respond to the rapid spread of the virus.
Wuhan also started on Tuesday transferring the first patients to a hospital built on record ten days deadline. Another hospital, even larger, with capacity for 1.600 beds, is under construction in the city and should open in a few days.
About 200 cases were identified in more than twenty countries and on Wednesday a patient died in the Chinese special administrative region of Hong Kong.
In a packet kept in quarantine off Japan, the number of cases detected rose to 20 after the 273 of the 3.700 passengers on board were observed. The ship's contagion began with a man who landed on the bellhop's passage through Hong Kong in January.
Last Thursday, the World Health Organisation declared an international public health emergency. This presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
