The Portuguese consul in Macao and Hong Kong today said that the seven people with Portuguese passports detained on a cruise in Hong Kong due to the new coronavirus are in good health.
"We were told that all of them had been subjected to medical tests and until yesterday [Thursday], no health problems were detected, remaining in quarantine", wrote Paul Cunha-Alves in an e-mail sent to Lusa.
"The General Consulate arrived yesterday [Thursday] in contact with the company owning the cruise ship to which it asked for more information on the identity of the seven persons, awaiting an answer", the diplomat explained.
Paulo Cunha-Alves also stressed that the consulate already asked the company to provide the seven persons with Portuguese passports with the contacts of the Portuguese Consulate General in Macao and Hong Kong.
At a press conference on Thursday, the head of the Macao Center for Disease Prevention and Control Lam Chong said that if Portuguese passport holders are residents of Macao, the Hong Kong authorities will communicate with the authorities of the territory, otherwise "will communicate with the consular services" of Portugal.
There are still 15 Macao residents aboard the ship.
The Portuguese Consulate General estimates that there are 170 thousand Portuguese passport carriers among residents in Macao and Hong Kong. Of these, only about six or seven thousand will be expatriated.
The Consulate General of Portugal in Macao and Hong Kong can be reached by phone 00 853 2835 6660, Macau@mne.pt or via a message on the respective page of the social network Facebook.
More than three.000 people, between crew and passengers, were kept on the cruise ship in Hong Kong port for medical examinations after confirmation that three Chinese passengers, who had previously travelled on the vessel, were infected with the new coronavirus
Yeah.
On Wednesday morning, a team of Hong Kong health authorities boarded the World Dream to carry out medical inspections of passengers 1.800 and 1.800 crew after the ship docked at the Kai Tak terminal in Kowloon, which arrived after being refused by the Taiwanese authorities.
China has today elevated to 636 dead and over 31 thousand infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak caused by a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (center), placed under quarantine.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are other cases of infection confirmed in more than twenty countries. In Europe, the number of confirmed cases arrived on Thursday at 31, with new infections detected in the United Kingdom, Germany and Italy.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared in mid-January an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
