The Government received a request from 14 Portuguese to be withdrawn from China because of the coronavirus outbreak, revealed the Foreign Minister, Augusto Santos Silva, in statements to the Renaissance.
According to the minister, actions are underway for the withdrawal of these Portuguese in a joint transport with other countries taking the same measures.
The Express confirmed this number with a source from the State Secretariat of the Portuguese Communities.
In a statement to the newspaper, the Secretariat of State of the Portuguese Communities states that the "Embassy of Portugal in Beijing is making contact with Portuguese citizens in Wuhan, two dozen citizens who live there, or are visiting the city, have been identified. Of these twenty Portuguese, 14 were already registered as residents of Wuhan with the Portuguese embassy.
Also according to the statement, a communication group was set up, through the WeChat social network, so that the embassy could be in contact with Portuguese citizens, and "embassy emergency contacts were made available if necessary".
"The embassy continues very attentively to monitoring all developments, through dialogue with the Chinese government authorities, the European Union delegation in China and the embassies of other countries," the report also reads, According to which the Portuguese embassy in Beijing will also have already attended meetings with representatives of the World Health Organisation in China.
The Chinese authorities announced this Monday that the death toll resulting from the coronavirus outbreak has risen to 80. Cases of infection with this virus are confirmed in total 2.744
Yeah.
Although there are no new confirmed deaths outside Hubei Prefecture, the total number of infections recorded increased in 769, about half of them in that province in the center of the country, whose capital, Wuhan, is considered to be the epicentre of the coronavirus. According to the National Health Committee, 461 of the infected are in serious condition.
