This Tuesday, the health authorities confirmed that there were two cases, one in Germany and one in Japan, of patients with coronovirs who were not in China and were infected in their countries by patients who were in Wuhan.
According to the Bavarian state health authorities in Germany, the German patient, the first European infected by the virus without having been in China, was hospitalized today.
The man is 33-year-old and works for a car supplier in Bavaria and was infected in January by a colleague who went from China to Germany to train for a few days, they put the health authorities ahead.
The Chinese official was between 19 and 22th in January in Germany and, on her return to Germany, "felt bad", said the director of Bavarian Health Service, Andreas Zapf.
The woman was immediately diagnosed as a positive case of coronavirus and, meanwhile, one of the employees of the Bavarian company who had participated in the training, also showed flu symptoms and was ultimately confirmed as a positive case of coronavirus.
So far no other suspicious case has been reported in Germany, but authorities are evaluating 40 persons who have come into contact with the two infected employees, inside or outside the company.
Another case of soil contamination took place in Japan.
The Japanese authorities today announced a case of the virus in a man who did not visit China, but transported tourists from Wuhan, a city where the coronov rus originated.
The 60-year-old man lives in the tourist city of Narra, and this month he transported two groups of Wuhan tourists on a bus, and was hospitalized on Saturday with flu symptoms, the Japanese Ministry of Health said.
China has elevated to 106 dead and more than four.000 infected the balance of the new coronavirus detected at the end of the year in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (center)
Yeah.
The Beijing authorities confirmed the first death in the Chinese capital of a person infected with the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV), a 50-year-old man who was in the city of Wuhan in the 8th of January.
A first confirmed case of contamination with this virus was recorded in Germany this Monday, the second affected country in Europe, after France.
In addition to mainland China, cases of infection have also been reported in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, France, Germany, Australia and Canada.
The Chinese authorities have admitted that the ability to spread the virus has increased.
Infected persons may transmit the disease during the incubation period, which takes between one day and two weeks, without the virus being detected.
The Chinese Government decided to extend the Lunar New Year's holiday period, which was due to end on Thursday, to try to limit population movements.
The Wuhan region is under quarantine, which affects 56 million people.
Some countries, such as the United States, Japan, France, Germany and Portugal, are preparing with the Chinese authorities to withdraw their citizens from Wuhan, where there are also two dozen Portuguese.
