The European Union (EU) is sending two aircraft to the Chinese region of Wuhan to repatriate French 250 and other 100 European citizens who request it,'regardless of nationality', because of the coronavirus, Brussels reported this Tuesday.
Through the social network Twitter, the European Commission's Humanitarian Aid Service informed this afternoon that, "as the outbreak intensifies, the European Civil Protection Mechanism was activated following a request from France", and reported two aircraft being sent to the repatriation of EU citizens.
In the meantime, in a statement, the Community executive indicates that "the EU will co-finance the costs of transporting aircraft" and "the first aircraft is scheduled to leave France tomorrow morning (Wednesday) in the morning, while the second will leave at the end of the week".
Although the measure follows the activation of the European Civil Protection Mechanism at the request of France, the European Commission explains that "EU citizens present in the region and wishing to be repatriated can ask for it, regardless of their nationality".
"Initial numbers indicate that about 250 French citizens will be transported on the first aircraft and more than 100 EU citizens from other countries will join the second aircraft," Brussels said, noting that "this is a first request for assistance and others may appear in the next few days". For the time being, according to the Community executive, "only healthy citizens who have no symptoms [of the virus] will be allowed to travel".
"The EU Emergency Response Centre remains in constant contact with the governments of the Member States to coordinate incoming and possible subsequent periods of quarantine," the European Commission says.
The Portuguese Government has already announced that it wants to withdraw by air the Portuguese detained in Wuhan
Yeah. In a statement addressed on Monday to the Portuguese around 20's residing in the city, the Portuguese embassy explained that it began "immediately all steps" to withdraw by air, using a chartered civilian aircraft "to take them directly to Portugal".
Located in the center of China, the city of Wuhan was placed last week under a de facto quarantine, with exits and entrances forbidden by authorities for indefinite periods, taking residents by surprise. The ban then extended and the entire Wuhan region is under quarantine, a situation affecting 56 million people.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
China raised to 131 dead and more than 4600 infected the latest balance of the new coronavirus detected at the end of the year in Wuhan, capital of Hubei Province (center). As early as Tuesday afternoon, the German health authorities confirmed three more cases of contagion by the new coronavirus found in China, supposedly related to the first infection of a 33-year-old patient in Bavaria. Hours earlier, the French Director General for Health, Jerome Salomon, had confirmed that the country had registered another case of coronavirus, increasing the number of infected in France to four.
In addition to mainland China, cases of infection have also been reported in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, France, Germany, Australia and Canada.
News update at 23h13: Further information on the new number of infected
