The Japanese authorities announced today that they detected 41 new cases of infection with the Chinese coronavirus on board a cruise ship, quarantined in the port of Yokohoma, south of Tokyo.
With these cases, the number of infected people on the Diamond Princess ship is elevated to 61, without including an infected Hong Kong resident who has left the ship in the special administrative region of China. Thus, the total number of infected in Japan has risen to 86.
At a press conference, Japanese Health Minister Katsunobu Kato reported that 21 of the 41 new confirmed cases were Japanese, but did not specify the nationality of the remaining persons.
The remaining 20 cases on board the cruise had been detected on previous dates and the infected have already been taken to medical centres in Tokyo and other nearby locations where they are receiving treatment.
Health authorities continue to carry out medical examinations on the passengers and crew of the Diamond Princess, who carried on board three.700 people. The ship has been under quarantine since Monday and for a period of two weeks.
In addition to this case, the Japanese Government decided on Thursday not to allow another cruise from Hong Kong into the country due to suspected contagion.
This cruise sailed from Hong Kong on Saturday, docked at a port in Taiwan and was on its way to Japan.
On the other hand, at the daily press conference, the Japanese Government spokesman, Yoshihide Suga, reported that a fourth aircraft arrived in Japan this morning with 198 people living in the Chinese city of Wuhan, the center of the new coronavirus outbreak, and had asked to return to Japan.
Overall, people of Japanese nationality or family members from other backgrounds have already been repatriated from Wuhan 763.
Yeah.
China elevated to 636 dead and over 31 thousand infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak caused by a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (centre), placed under quarantine.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are other cases of infection confirmed in more than twenty countries. In Europe, the number of confirmed cases arrived on Thursday at 31, with new infections detected in the United Kingdom, Germany and Italy.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared in mid-January an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
