The European Union's (EU) health ministers are meeting at an extraordinary council next Thursday to discuss the development of the Chinese coronavirus, which has already infected 26 people in the Community area, was announced this Friday.
A European source told Lusa that this is an extraordinary meeting at the level of the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumers Council (EPSCO), which is held on Thursday morning in the Belgian capital, Brussels.
In the meantime, the Council of the EU has reported on this meeting in a statement stating that'the health ministers will exchange views and adopt conclusions on the new coronavirus outbreak'.
Portugal should be represented at the time by Mrs Marta Temido, Minister for Health.
Data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, consulted this Friday by Lusa, indicate that so far 26 cases have already been recorded in the EU, most of them imported from China.
These are 13 cases in Germany (two imported, 11 locally acquired), six cases in France (five imported, one purchased locally), three cases in Italy (all imported), one case in Belgium (imported), one case in Finland (imported), one case in Spain (imported) and one case in Sweden (imported).
These cases in the EU were detected between January 25th and this Friday.
In addition to these three cases in the United Kingdom (three imported), a country which has since ceased to belong to the EU, but is still included in the data from this European health body.
All over, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, 31.503 people have been infected with the new coronavirus worldwide and 638 deaths have already occurred.
The new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (center), a locality which has since been placed under quarantine
Yeah.
The first person to die from the new coronavirus outside China was a Chinese citizen in the Philippines.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are other cases of infection confirmed in more than twenty countries. In Europe, the number of confirmed cases arrived on Thursday at 31, with new infections detected in the United Kingdom, Germany and Italy.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared in mid-January an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
