Finland confirmed this Wednesday the first case of contamination with the new coronavirus in the country, with local authorities saying that the patient is a stable Chinese tourist. Finland thus joins the other two countries in Europe (four cases) and Germany (four cases) which have already identified people infected by the new coronavirus found initially in China.
The patient is from the city of Wuhan in the Hubei province (central China), where the new virus was first identified, the same sources were informed, adding that the woman was visiting Lapland in the northern part of Finland. The 32-year-old woman was admitted to a local hospital with symptoms associated with the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV), which causes potentially serious respiratory disease, such as pneumonia.
It was the patient herself who turned to the hospital unit after experiencing the first signs of infection, said authorities, who added that after testing the virus contamination was confirmed. According to sources at the Lapland Central Hospital, cited by the local media, the patient is stable. 15 other people are under observation as they will have been exposed to potential contagion.
The Finnish authorities, the first Nordic country to register a case of contamination by 2019-nCoV, have stated that the situation is under control and that the risk of spreading the new coronavirus in Finnish territory is low.
China has elevated to 132 dead and more than five.900 infected the balance of victims of the new coronavirus detected at the end of the year in Wuhan. Nearly six.000 confirmed infections show that the number of people affected during the epidemic of Acute Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) has already been exceeded in China, which reached 5.000.
.327 persons between November 2002 and August of 2003, according to official data.
In addition to mainland China, and now Finland, cases of infection have been reported in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, Australia, Canada, Germany, France and the United Arab Emirates.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) has today decided to re-convene the Emergency Committee on Thursday to determine whether the outbreak of the new coronavirus, originating in China, should be an international public health emergency.
