This Thursday, the Director General of Health stated that the seven persons with Portuguese passports held on a cruise with more than 3000 passengers and crew members in Hong Kong due to the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV), "are not at special risk".
Grace Freitas, who was speaking at a press conference in Lisbon, where a new national balance was made on the infection with 2019-nCoV, said that the people concerned "are not at special risk or have developed symptoms".
The Macao Government is not aware whether the seven Portuguese passport holders are resident in the autonomous Chinese region.
According to Macao health authorities, Hong Kong (special administrative region of China) would communicate with Macao authorities if they were Macao residents. Otherwise, the Portuguese consular services would be contacted.
More than 3000 people, between crew and passengers, were kept on the cruise ship in Hong Kong port to undergo medical examinations after confirmation that three Chinese passengers, who had previously travelled on the vessel, were carriers of the new coronavirus.
On Wednesday morning, a team of Hong Kong health authorities boarded the World Dream to carry out medical inspections of 1800 passengers and 1800 crew members after the ship docked at Kai Tak terminal in Kowloon, which arrived after being refused by the Taiwanese authorities.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
This Thursday, China elevated to 563 dead and over 28 thousand infected to the balance sheet of the coronavirus outbreak (2019-nCoV), identified in December in the city of Wuhan, placed under quarantine. In addition to the mainland of China and the regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are cases of infection confirmed in more than twenty countries
Yeah.
A week ago, the World Health Organisation declared the new coronavirus outbreak an international public health emergency because of the high risk of global spread. The international emergency requires the adoption of preventive and coordinated measures worldwide.
