The Macao Government has promised to fight against the increase in prices of essential products and prevention against the new Chinese coronavirus and, at the same time, to strengthen policies against hoarding.
"The competent services will rigorously combat acts of unjust price increases and hoarding in order to protect the rights and interests of residents", warned the Macao government in a statement released on Wednesday night.
The Government of the Territory, where seven cases of people infected with the new Chinese coronavirus have already been verified, has also ensured that it has "monitored product prices, warning operators that they cannot unjustly increase prices in the face of the temporary shortage of epidemic prevention articles".
On Tuesday, the Economic Services Directorate and the Consumer Council met with wholesalers, suppliers and supermarket leaders. The meeting concluded that "the offer is sufficient and stable".
For this reason, it is added in the same note, the authorities "again appeal to residents not to worry anymore, not to buy too much food".
"The general supply of food and household goods on the market is sufficient at stable prices and the purchasing situation tends to be more moderate and normal", strengthened the Macao Government.
Some products that have been scarce at some outlets, such as rice, "will be gradually put on shelves after suppliers return to the workplace".
Many of the companies in Macao are closed because of the Lunar New Year.
"The quantity of rice stored can be consumed by the entire Macao population for half a month and the import of the goods will resume at the beginning of February", the authorities said.
China has risen to 170 dead and more than 7
.700 infected with the balance of victims of the new coronavirus detected at the end of the year in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (centre).
The Macao Government announced that the Chinese New Year's public service holidays would be extended until Friday, as was adopted by several private companies to reduce the risk of infection from the new Chinese coronavirus after the seventh imported case of infection had been registered in the territory.
The reopening of schools, and cultural and sporting venues that had already been closed since last week, has been delayed indefinitely.
Two of the shipping links between Macao and Hong Kong are suspended as of today and the rest will suffer a reduction in the number of voyages, also indefinitely.
