This Thursday, the financial rating agency Fitch Rating pointed out that Macao casinos, which were forced to shut down due to the outbreak of the new coronavirus, may lose three billion euros in the next six months.
As reported, the agency foresees a "fall of 50% and 25% in revenue in the first and second quarters respectively in Macao".
"This results in an aggregate decline of 3,3 billion dollars (3 billion euro in cash flow for all six Macao operators", added Fitch.
Fitch further noted that the fall of almost 80% of the number of visitors in the game's world capital during the Lunar New Year week had already caused great damage to casino revenues.
"Prior to the outbreak, Macao was generating around 100 million gross daily gambling revenue", said the agency, to conclude that closing these complexes for 15 days will cause losses of 1,5 billion dollars (1,4 billion euros).
However, in the long term, Fitch anticipated not expecting "a lasting impact on the tourist industries or Macao games", pointing out that the impact on revenue and cash flow is only temporary.
Because of the outbreak of the new coronavirus, the agency foresees that the proceeds from the games in Macao will be smaller than those in 2019, "although the degree of decline is difficult to determine until the full extent and duration of the coronavirus impact is clearer".
Casinos closed 2019 with recipes for 292,46 million hooves (about 32,43 million euros), less 3,4% than the previous year.
Game capital of the world, Macau is the only place in China where casino gambling is legal. The territory operates six dealerships: Macao Gaming Society, founded by Stanley Ho, Galaxy, Venetian (Sands China), Melco Resorts, Wynn and MGM.
Yeah.
On Tuesday, Macao's chief executive, Ho Iat Seng, announced that casinos would close at local 00h and for two weeks following confirmation of the tenth case of infection in the territory.
On the same day, the head of the Macao government also ordered the closure of theaters, theaters, amusement parks in enclosed rooms, recreational machine rooms and video games, cyber cafes, pool and bowling rooms, saunas and massage parlors, beauty parlors, bodybuilding gyms, health club and karaoke establishments, night clubs, discos, dance rooms and cabaret.
The frequency of public transport has been reduced again and all public parks have been closed down, as is already the case with public services, schools and sports and cultural areas.
China has today elevated to 563 dead and over 28 thousand infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak caused by a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (center), placed under quarantine.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are other cases of infection confirmed in more than twenty countries, the last new case identified in Belgium Tuesday.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared in mid-January an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
