The number of people who died as a result of the new coronavirus, detected in Wuhan city in Hubei Province in China, increased to 169 today, with the registration of 1.032 new cases of infection, announced Beijing authorities.
According to the Chinese authorities, cited by the France-Presse agency, all the fatalities recorded in the last 24-hour period occurred in Hubei Province.
The number of infected people on Chinese territory exceeds six thousand.
In addition to mainland China, cases of infection have been reported in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States of America, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, Australia, Canada, Germany, France (the first European country to detect cases of the new coronavirus), Finland and the United Arab Emirates.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) has decided to convene today the Emergency Committee to determine whether this viral outbreak should be declared an international public health emergency.
The decision was communicated on Wednesday by a publication by the WHO Director General, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, on the social network Twitter, one week after the organisation considered the international public health emergency declaration premature at the end of a two-day meeting of the same committee, consisting of specialists, including epidemiologists.
The European Health Commissioner, Stella Kyriakidou, said that the majority of European Union Member States are'very well prepared'to deal with the new coronavirus, but has admitted that'emergency funding' may be necessary for countries to be able to respond if necessary.
Stella Kyriakidou recalled that "so far, there are four confirmed cases in France, four in Germany" and that on Wednesday afternoon a case was heard on Finnish territory
Yeah.
The European Commissioner has ensured that Brussels is in'permanent contact'with these and other European Union countries to'ensure that the necessary containment measures are adopted'.
European source told Lusa on Wednesday that 17 Portuguese citizens in China-- almost everyone in Wuhan, Hubei province, has already asked to leave the country.
"All together, 17 Portuguese have already expressed their willingness to leave China, according to the Portuguese authorities", indicated the source of the European Commission, after a point of situation made this afternoon by the Community executive with representatives of the Member States regarding the outbreak.
A genetic study released on Wednesday also confirms that the new coronavirus was transmitted to humans via a still unknown wild animal that was infected by bats.
The study, conducted by Chinese scientists, including the Center for Disease Prevention and Control of China, analyzed the coronavirus genome of nine patients diagnosed with viral pneumonia in the city of Wuhan, where the outbreak began in December.
The work, released in the British medical journal The cautious author of the study admits that the new coronavirus is not the result of a genetic mutation of another coronavirus, but may have entered human cells in the same way as the coronavirus that caused the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), Also identified for the first time in China, 2002 and 2003.
