Analyses of suspected cases of infection with the new coronavirus appearing in Portugal take an average of five hours to obtain results in the current situation, according to Raquel Guiomar, responsible for the National Institute of Health INSA.
The coordinator of the National Reference Laboratory for Influenza Virus and Other Respiratory Virus states that INSA has taken advantage of all the circuitry it has already assembled for other cases of respiratory diseases, such a s the coronary Middle East virus or even the H1N1 influenza pandemic in 2009.
The circuit and know-how were assembled. We had to adapt the test to this new agent, Raquel Guiomar explained.
In statements to Lusa Agency, INSA expert explained that the process of detecting the new coronavirus in a suspect case takes on average five hours before results are analyzed, this being an average time for the current phase.
"This context of a rapid response is for the current epidemiological situation, which is now living," he stressed, stating that it is still a phase of disease containment and that there are not many samples to test.
According to Raquel Guiomar, rapid response and detection capability is "more crucial" precisely at this stage, in which it is intended to avoid the transmission chain or break it quickly if that is the case.
In the situation where a suspicious case is detected for investigation in Portugal (so far only one, which has proved negative), the patient should be transported by INEM to one of the reference hospitals. In Lisbon it is the Curry Cabral for adults and Dona Estefania for children, while in Porto it is St John for all situations.
Under isolation conditions, the patient with the suspected case is subjected to a respiratory sampling by the hospital specialist team
Yeah.
Raquel Guiomar also assured that INSA professionals are in close contact with hospital professionals harvesting to clarify any doubts about the procedure in real time.
It is recommended that two samples are sent to INSA simultaneously, arriving in self-packing and refrigerated, transported by hospital services or certified companies.
In INSA, the samples are received in the laboratory by an experienced professional, through an already known procedure that was implemented for other coronavirus, and are now remaining for the new 2019-nCoV detected in China.
The sample is received and prepared, with the virus inactivated by reagents that keep the genetic material stable, but that cause the virus to cease to be infectious.
According to Raquel Guiomar, the profession is made in biological safety chambers used also for the treatment of other types of samples.
Currently, the INSA has level 3 safety laboratories with negative pressure that ensure the physical containment of agents within the lab without risk of accidental propagation to the outside.
Although not a mandatory requirement, at this stage the INSA is and will use level 3 laboratories for detection and screening of the new coronavirus.
China raised to 213 dead and nearly ten thousand infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak caused by the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) detected at the end of the year in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (centre).
The previous balance sheet showed 170 dead in China and 7.736 infected people.
In addition to mainland China and Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are more than fifty confirmed cases of infection in 20 other countries (Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, United States, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, United Kingdom, Australia, Finland, United Arab Emirates, Cambodia, Philippines and India
Yeah.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared on Thursday an international public health emergency (PHEIC) because of the outbreak of the new coronavirus in China.
An international public health emergency requires the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
This is the sixth time the WHO has declared an international public health emergency.
To declare it, the WHO has considered three criteria: an extraordinary situation, the risk of rapid expansion to other countries and the demand for a coordinated international response.
