The spread of the Chinese coronavirus triggered the number of false reports that spread "conspiracy theories" about the origin of the outbreak. This Thursday, the European External Action Service's working group against disinformation was released.
"As news about an unknown respiratory virus that has killed more than 100 people spreads around the world, so do conspiracy theories", in an analysis published today, considers the East StratCom working group set up by the European Union (EU) at 2015 to combat Russian disinformation.
Speaking of "new opportunities for misinformation", this working group -which normally detects between 50-to-80 cases of fake news (false news) per week- indicates that this coronavirus "is beginning to look like a gold mine of misinformation" for the pro-Kremlin media (in favor of the Russian regime).
Examples of publications made this week and highlighted by this working group include news with the titles "coronavirus is a biological weapon created by the United Kingdom", "coronavirus can be a bacteriological weapon of the United States against China" or "the technology of the United States is behind the outbreak of the coronavirus."
Already attacking the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), news came this week as "the new Chinese coronavirus has probably been produced in NATO biological laboratories".
In today's publication, East StratCom attacks the "pro-Kremlin disinformation machine", lamenting information about an American weapon of mass destruction aimed at China from one of the US military labs surrounding Russia and China, for the benefit of large pharmaceutical and American companies"
Yeah.
Recalling that similar cases of misinformation have occurred with the Zika virus, this working group concludes that, "as the coronavirus continues to spread and authorities run out of time to contain it, attention should be paid to the proliferation of disinformation stories, which have all the potential to become viral, with serious consequences."
China raised to 170 dead and more than 7.700 infected the balance of victims of the new coronavirus detected at the end of the year in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (centre).
A genetic study, conducted by Chinese scientists, confirmed that the new coronavirus originating in China was transmitted to humans through an unknown wild animal that was infected by bats.
The World Health Organisation has called today the Emergency Committee to determine whether this viral outbreak should be declared an international public health emergency.
In addition to mainland China, cases of infection have been reported in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States of America, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, Australia, Canada, Germany, France (the first European country to detect cases), Finland and the United Arab Emirates.
