Chin a has begun to develop a vaccine against the new coronavirus, which has already caused the death of 56 people and infected 1.975 people in the country, this Sunday the official newspaper of the Chinese Communist Party (PCC).
According to the Daily People's Journal, scientist Xu Wenbo of the Center for Disease Prevention and Control said that this center is already developing a vaccine against the new coronavirus "after successfully isolating the first diseased virus".
The news comes at a time when China is expanding prevention for the spread of the virus, such as closing access to Shantou City in the southeast, or suspending inter-communal bus services in Beijing, Tianjin, Xian and Shandong Province. A temporary ban on trade in wild animals has also been imposed.
In addition, Shanghai in the east of the country and this Saturday recorded its first kill due to the new coronavirus, announced the suspension of the train line linking the city centre to the Anting district, on the border with Jiangsu Province.
The Chinese National Health Commission announced this morning (dawn in Lisbon) that the number of deaths caused by the coronavirus increased to 56 and cases of the disease were reported 1.975 in the country.
The committee added that 324 patients are in serious condition.
The United States has announced that they are preparing to withdraw their diplomatic personnel and other US citizens who are being detained in Wuhan, the center of the new coronavirus outbreak.
Washington is preparing a direct flight from Wuhan to San Francisco on Tuesday, the State Department said in a statement.
The United States maintains a consulate in Wuhan, the city where the vast majority of infection and deaths of the new coronavirus have been reported.
Yeah.
"The space [of the aeroplane] is extremely limited and, if it is not possible to transport them all, priority will be given to those most at risk," added the US authorities.
Other countries are planning to withdraw their citizens from Wuhan. France is considering withdrawing its citizens by bus, and Portuguese authorities are cooperating with other European countries to strengthen support for national citizens in Wuhan.
"We are in contact with citizens and cooperating with other European countries to seek to strengthen support for the imprisoned Portuguese compatriots" in Wuhan, said this Saturday to the source of the office of the Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities, Berta Nunes.
The Chinese authorities warned that the country is at the "most critical" point with regard to the prevention and control of the virus. At least 13 Chinese cities have been quarantined.
In addition to mainland China, three dozen cases of infection have been confirmed in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, France, Australia and Canada.
