Portuguese experts warn, in an article published in the Medical Act, that Portugal may not be prepared to face the new coronavirus and that it has not learned from avian influenza and severe acute respiratory infection.
In an article published this Thursday in the Scientific Journal of the Medical Association, experts write, "It is possible that we are not yet prepared to respond to a suspected case of coronavirus (2019-nCov). The lack of preparation that we witnessed in the first suspicious case (which has fortunately not been confirmed) should be used to help health services correct their mistakes and be better prepared.
"These lessons should have been learned a long time ago, after the emergencies of H5N1 avian influenza, SARS [severe acute respiratory syndrome], H1N1 pandemic and Mers-Cov [Middle East respiratory syndrome]", writes tyreologist Raquel Duarte, Port Medical School, Isabel Furtado, of the infectious service from the Porto University Hospitality Centre, Luis Sousa, from the Public Health Department of the ARS of the North, and Carlos Carvalho, also from this ARS and from the Abel Salazar Biomedical Science Institute.
The experts also argue:'More than being concerned about a number (...), we should ensure that the country is prepared to contain the disease quickly after a suspicious case has arisen or a healthy person has been infected.' On quarantine, experts consider that "the freedom of each individual must be considered, but public health must always be a priority".
Remember that this new epidemic is a test of the country's ability to face a threat that will repeat itself over time. Each time, we must learn from mistakes to be better prepared, they underline in the article entitled "The 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV): Novel Virus, Old Challenges"
Yeah. [2019's New Coronavirus: New virus, old challenges]
The new coronavirus, which emerged last December in Wuhan (China), has already caused 563 dead and infected over a thousand people. In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are other cases of infection confirmed in more than twenty countries. The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared in mid-January an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
