The Pangolim, a small mammal at risk of extinction and one of the most smuggled animals in the world, may have been the transmitter for the new coronavirus, which has already killed six-36 people in China.
Investigators at the South China University of Agriculture identified the pangolin as the "possible intermediary host" that facilitated the transmission of the virus, pointed to the university in communique issued this Friday, without going into further details.
An animal that harbors a virus without getting sick but can infect other species is called a "reservoir".
In the case of the new coronavirus, most analysts point to the primary bat: according to a recent study, the genomes of the new coronavirus are 96% equal to those circulating in that animal's body.
The Pangolim could have served as "intermediate host" between the bat and humans, according to the new study cited by the Chinese state press.
The same investigation, which tested more than 1.000 samples of wild animals, concluded that the virus detected in the pangolins is 99% identical to that found in human patients.
The new virus was initially detected last December in a market for shellfish and wild animals situated in the Wuhan suburbs of central China.
The initial hypothesis that the intermediary was the snake was, however, removed.
During the epidemic of atypical pneumonia, also caused by a coronavirus, and between 2002 and 2003 it paralyzed China, the intermediary was civeta, a small mammal whose meat is appreciated in China.
As part of the measures to contain the recent epidemic, China announced at the end of January the temporary closure of markets for wild animals, prohibiting indefinitely the creation, transport or sale of all species of wild animals
Yeah.
The Pangolim is the most smuggled mammal in the world, with about a million specimens captured in the last ten years in the forests of Asia and Africa. Illegal hunting is stimulated by increased demand for their flesh and body parts.
Pangolim, which has the longest tongue than its body and feeds on ants and termites, has been protected since September of 2016 by the International Convention on Trade in Threatened Species of Extinction, to which China is a signatory.
In some regions of China and Vietnam, the use of pangolin meat is popular among young mothers, for their alleged beneficial effects on breast milk, while their scales are used in traditional pharmacopoeia.
