By the end of the week, the rescue of the ten Portuguese residents of Wuhan will be completed, where the focus of the new coronavirus has emerged in China. The Health Minister, Marta Temido, moved forward this Tuesday with the exit plan drawn up.
"We will follow up the protocols, which are careful, detailed and rigorous. It is necessary to assess whether people embark with any symptoms, it is necessary to understand if any symptoms occur during flight and if there are any symptoms on arrival", he stressed. The detailed clarification of the Minister of Health was made on the same day that the European Union decided to send two aircraft to Wuhan. The flights, which will depart between Wednesday and Friday, are intended to repatriate, due to the new coronavirus, French 250 and other 100 European citizens who so request,'regardless of nationality', indicated Brussels.
CM Questions
29 January 2020
Coronavirus: Is repatriating citizens a good solution?
YES
NO
Vote
The European Commission's Humanitarian Aid Service has reported that, "as the outbreak intensifies, the European Civil Protection Mechanism has been activated after a request from France", with the dispatch of two aircraft for repatriation. The measure will be financed by the European Union. According to the Community executive, "only healthy or symptomatic citizens will be allowed to travel".
On arrival in Portugal, Health Minister Marta Temido said that the confinement of citizens will then be decided. This will have to be assessed after the process of boarding, of determining transport
Yeah. If they have any symptoms, the situation will be one, if they develop any symptoms during flight, the situation will be another", he added that"if they do not show any symptoms on arrival", he may"ask them to refrain from moving, to remain in their domiciles", given the incubation period of the Virus.
Meanwhile, the French authorities have confirmed the fourth case- an 80-year-old Chinese tourist. In Germany, there are now four patients.
The first infected who were not in China The first confirmed case in Germany and the most recent case in Japan are from patients who have been infected in their countries. The German authorities reported that the German intern was infected by a Chinese colleague who had been training in Bavaria for a week. The woman didn't know she was sick until she returned to Wuhan. Germany has placed under clinical surveillance 40 persons who have been in contact with German and Chinese.
Medical assessment on arrival The Portuguese to withdraw from Wuhan will be evaluated on arrival in Portugal to determine the risk of exposure to the new coronavirus and only then will any social isolation measures be taken, explained the Director General for Health, Grace Freitas. The first thing we have to understand when they arrive is the risk that they may have contracted an infection. If the risk is too small no action is taken,"he said.
In the current framework of the evolution of the disease in Portugal the Director-General of Health has stated that the measures to be adopted will not be as restrictive as those defined in France. Grace Freitas also stressed the importance of ascertaining the person's "epidemiological history".
In France, Health Minister Agnes Buzyn said that the French who are to be removed from the Chinese city, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak (2019-nCoV) will be kept in a containment site for 14 days. This is the estimated maximum duration of incubation of the disease
Yeah. At the end of this period there is a guarantee that they have not been infected by the virus. The French authorities will adopt these measures even if they do not show symptoms.
PORMENORES President accompanying The President of the Republic stated this Tuesday that he was monitoring the situation, noting that the Portuguese community in China "has not yet been reached", and that everything is "ready for its reception here".
peak of the disease in ten days Chinese epidemiologist Zhong Nanshan has advanced that the peak of the epidemic should be reached within ten days. The doctor's rejecting any large-scale spread.
Isolated in WuhanA Directorate-General for Health stressed that "if the Portuguese who have been in their homes in Wuhan for the past four days have had no contact with people or animals, have been exposed to anything, have no symptoms, there is no reason to put them in isolation".
Experience with Mexico-based Medicine of influenza A epidemic in 2009, the Director-General of Health, Grace Freitas, recalled: "We were asking people who were coming and who may or may not be incubating the virus to do voluntary social isolation".
Vaccine in 40-day Chinese researchers believe that within 40-day time the first vaccine will be tested. The investigation belongs to East Shanghai Hospital and Tongji University.
Risk of infection for fifteen days Infected persons may transmit the disease during the incubation period, which takes between one day and two weeks without the virus being detected, revealed to the WHO.
Possible symptoms must be reported via Health Line 24, through number 8002424, medical support line, for screening and prevention of possible contagion.
Portugal's devices have already triggered public health devices due to the new coronavirus and has alerted the San Juan Hospital in Porto, the Curry Cabral and Stephania in Lisbon.
