The President of the Republic stated this Tuesday that he was monitoring the situation related to the new coronavirus and said that, so far, the Portuguese community in China has "not yet been hit" and in Portugal, "there is no case" proven for contamination.
"The government has been following this up and down, day by day. I have followed because I am told what is happening and, fortunately, there are all the conditions so far, so that we can say that our community there has not been reached and that there is still no case here that can be considered as proven contamination,"said Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, who spoke in Sabrosa, Vila district Royal, after the presentation of the book "Letters to Miguel Torga".
The head of state said that'everything is already prepared for your reception here, under conditions of health deemed appropriate'.
"The Government has been following this matter closely, and has also supported the Portuguese Ambassador to the People's Republic of China, and has already said what it is preparing to say in order to repatriate to Portugal those who want to come, in those areas or regions which are perhaps, the most complicated and where the problem is most serious", he stressed.
Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa was questioned by journalists about the most advanced repatriation process by other countries and in his reply stated that "they are different situations".
"There are countries that have hundreds of citizens and have therefore been able to resort to a solution that encompassed all of them. The Portuguese community is very small and therefore this forces us to find joint solutions. And the Government has been finding joint solutions that will bring in those who want to come as soon as possible,"he said.
Yeah.
The European Union will send two aircraft between Wednesday and Friday to the Chinese region of Wuhan to repatriate 250 French and other 100 European citizens who so request, regardless of nationality.
Questioned as to whether the Portuguese will be able to come on the second plane, the President of the Republic said that the government will "have to inform".
China raised to 106 dead and more than four.000 infected the balance of the new coronavirus detected at the end of the year in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (center).
The Beijing authorities confirmed the first death in the Chinese capital of a person infected with the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV), a 50-year-old man who was in Wuhan City in January 08.
A first confirmed case in Germany of contamination with this virus was recorded this Monday, the second affected country in Europe, after France.
In addition to mainland China, cases of infection have also been reported in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, France, Germany, Australia and Canada.
The Chinese authorities have admitted that the ability to spread the virus has increased.
Infected persons may transmit the disease during the incubation period, which takes between one day and two weeks, without the virus being detected.
