The Chinese stock index CSI300 sank this Monday almost 8%, the worst performance since August of 2015. The index even devalued 9.1% during the day, the biggest fall of the last 13 years in back-to-negotiation sessions after the New Year celebrations in China, according to the "Financial Times". The impact of coronavirus on the economy may still be felt for some time to come.
More than 80% of the shares quoted in the CSI300 this Monday were devaluations of the 10% order despite the effort signalled by the Chinese authorities to try to stabilise the market, with the central bank injecting the equivalent of 156 billion euro into the financial system. The devaluation of that index, according to Bloomberg and the Financial Times, amounted to a 323 billion euro "evaporation".
"This pandemic is not something that only affects the market for a few days. It will last for a while", envisioned China's president Vision Capital, Sun Jianbo, cited by Bloomberg.
The biggest impact is being felt on the Chinese stock exchange. In other financial areas, the consequences are slimmer. In Europe, for example, the Portuguese stock exchange was still depreciating 0.5%, but the main French index, CAC40, was still valued 0.33%. In Germany, the DAX index continued to rise 0.34%.
Last Friday the DBRS financial rating agency had already released a note on the impact of coronavirus on the market. Although it is too early to calculate the economic impact of the virus in China, given the speed at which the infection spread, the impact should be felt mainly in this first trimester", DBRS assesses.
"Consumption, especially in retail sales, must be affected, as people limit their activities outside the home
Yeah. Less sharply, production may also be affected temporarily by holiday extensions and possible measures to contain the virus. The spread of the coronavirus has led companies to limit travel to China, which will affect the hotel, catering and transport,"DBRS says.
Cancelling flights to and from China and limiting travel could lead to a reduction in the consumption of petroleum products as a whole and thus lower the price of crude oil. The brent, oil whose price serves as a benchmark for European markets, is falling back 0.53%, trading at 56,3 dollars per barrel. In Portugal, the only quoted oil company Galp is depreciating on a 1,25% exchange this Monday.
Also some raw materials that are particularly dependent on the performance of the Chinese economy this Monday saw significant devaluations.
Overall, the coronavirus has infected more than 17 thousand people, causing more than 360 fatalities to date.
