Japan and the United States were the first to repatriate hundreds of its citizens this Wednesday in the Chinese city of Wuhan, where the new coronavirus was detected in December, a process that follows other countries. A plane with about Japanese 206 landed today at Haneda Airport in Tokyo, and some passengers were hospitalized, without any case of contamination being immediately confirmed.
A medical team was on board and passengers were interrogated during flight to detect any symptoms and then taken to a medical centre for further examination. Five people, who indicated that they were feeling ill, were hospitalized on their arrival. Two were diagnosed with pneumonia, but it was not confirmed at this stage whether or not they had the new coronavirus, since the test results require time.
The Japanese authorities do not consider quarantining the returnees and asking them to remain in their homes for two weeks.
A plane with North American 201 from the Chinese city at the center of the coronavirus outbreak also arrived this Wednesday at a Southern California military base after everyone on board passed a health screening test in Anchorage, where the aircraft stopped to refuel. The plane landed shortly after 8h00 locations (16h00 in Lisbon) at the March Air Force Base, about 96 kilometers east of Los Angeles.
Several European countries, including Portugal, France, Italy and Germany, but also Australia have plans in place to repatriate some of their citizens in Wuhan. The European Union has announced that two aircraft will be sent between today and Friday to the Chinese region of Wuhan, which will be repatriated because of the coronavirus, French 250 and other 100 European citizens who so request, regardless of nationality.
Yeah.
Italy will also send a plane to Wuhan on Thursday, without specifying the number of people repatriated or whether the protocol provides for quarantine. Also the Australian Government announced this Wednesday that it will remove its citizens from the city Wuhan to Christmas Island in the Indian Ocean, where they will remain in quarantine.
In the coming days, Berlin will also withdraw about 90 Germans present in Wuhan. German returnees will be subject to a 14-day quarantine period in accordance with the incubation period of the virus, the German Government indicated.
China has elevated to 132 dead and more than five.900 infected the balance of victims of the new coronavirus detected at the end of the year in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (centre). Today, a case of contagion has been identified by the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in the United Arab Emirates, the first found in Middle Eastern countries.
In addition to mainland China, cases of infection have been reported in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, Australia, Canada, Germany, France and the United Arab Emirates.
