Approximately 7.000 persons on board a company cruise ship Costa, including 6.000 passengers, are prevented from landing in the Italian port of Civitavecchia because one of the passengers has symptoms compatible with the coronavirus.
This is a woman from Macao, but there is a second person, the companion, also isolated from the other passengers, counts La Repubblica.
The Italian newspaper also adds that the results of the first analyses carried out by Spallanzani hospital in Rome will be "reassuring". The Port Commander of Civitavecchia, Vincenzo Leone, even announced that people who finish the cruise could disembark 1.140, but the intervention of the local mayor had aborted the order.
Some of the 6.000 people who are prevented from leaving the "Smeralda Coast" cruise ship in the port of Civitavecchia
BUT PERCOSUS
"We were alerted early this morning by the Ministry of Health and sent three physicians on board to take samples," said the spokesperson at the health center of Civitavecchia, about 80 kilometers from Rome.
The Italian press had already reported the case, stating that the suspicious cases were of a couple coming from Macao.
The spokesman for the Italian company Costa Cruzeiros confirmed that "there are approximately 6.000 passengers on board", the remaining crew members.
The Smeralda Coast doctor, one of the largest ships on the Cruise Coast, informed the Italian port authorities of the presence on board a Chinese couple whose wife had suspected symptoms of coughing and high fever.
The Cruise Coast confirmed in a statement that "it activated the health protocol for a suspicious case, referring to a tourist from Macao, aboard the Smeralda Coast"
Yeah.
The 54-year-old woman was "placed in solitary confinement" in the ship's infirmary along with her companion, according to the company.
The couple arrived in Milan on the 25th of January from Hong Kong, then boarded in Savona (Italy), and the ship subsequently made layovers in Barcelona and Palma de Mallorca (Spain) and Marseilles (France), according to Italian media.
The Smeralda Coast arrived this morning at Civitavecchia de Palma de Mallorca (Spain), for a week-long cruise in the Mediterranean, the company said.
In Italy, until now, "all cases (suspects) analysed have yielded negative results, and the system (Italian health) is ready if there is any case of contagion to the new coronavirus", said journalist Silvio Brusaferro, President of the Higher Health Institute today.
The epicenter of the new coronavirus epidemic (2019mCov) is located in the city of Wuhan, in the People's Republic of China, where there are already 170 dead and more than 7.700 people are infected.
In addition to China and the Chinese territories of Macao and Hong Kong, there are at least fifty confirmed cases of the new coronavirus in 18 other countries in Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, the United States, Canada, France, Germany, Australia, Finland, the United Arab Emirates, Cambodia, Philippines and India.
News update at three thirty.
