Over 11 thousand infected and 259 dead, all in China. It is the latest in the outbreak of the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) that has already spread to 25 countries. More than 60 countries have already implemented containment measures, from requiring medical attestations to those landing flights from China to cancelling flights or closing schools, shops and services. The objective is to halt the spread of 2019-nCoV.
On Thursday the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the coronavirus as a public health emergency case of international interest. And even though the WHO has not recommended restricting travel, the number of airlines and countries that have suspended flights to China is constantly increasing. In Portugal, the contingency plan is activated. Firefighters, INEM and hospitals have received standards that should guide security procedures in suspicious cases.
The United States has declared a public health emergency and announced that flights from China are only allowed to land at seven American airports, where passenger control will be strengthened. The country also announced that from Sunday onwards foreign nationals who have been in the CHina in the last 14 days, incubation period of the virus will not enter the country. Americans who have not been through that territory for the past two weeks will also have to be quarantined.
Iran has cancelled all outward and return flights to China as a preventive measure against the outbreak of the new coronavirus. In a statement, the Iranian Civil Aviation Organisation spokesman Reza Jafarzadeh also announced that measures will be taken, which he did not specify, to transport Iranian passengers in China. At the international airport in Tehran, a group of doctors controls all passengers arriving from the countries of East Asia or regions where cases of infection with the new coronavirus have already been confirmed.
Yeah. If passengers with symptoms are detected, they are transported to quarantine centres,
Macao's in minimum service. Schools, public services, cultural areas and deportees are now closed, trade is stalled and the two maritime links between Macao and Hong Kong are suspended, and the rest of them are expected to be reduced indefinitely as well. As the Express had already advanced, Macao Correctional Services Directorate announced the suspension from Sunday and also indefinitely of visits to prisoners and institutionalized youth. Many companies have also chosen to temporarily shut down or advise their employees to work remotely.
Vietnam cancelled the issuance of visas to tourists from China who represented one third of the total visitors to the territory last year. The government also set up a crisis committee to combine virus containment strategies and suspended all air links with China. However, the country is concerned about the economic impact of the outbreak and, like Thailand and Singapore, already prepares measures to minimise the economic impact of the outbreak in sectors such as tourism or exports.
Thailand is already missing tourists from the Asian giant. On Friday the government approved a package of measures, including temporary tax cuts and low-interest credit facilitation to help the tourist sector. Singapore authorities have recognised that the coronavirus outbreak will harm tourism and the economy, but the country has already closed its borders to Chinese travellers or who have been in China in the last 14 days, with the exception of residents with permanent residence or nationality
Yeah.
In India, which has been evacuating citizens on Chinese territory, passengers travelling to China recently are being watched for the typical symptoms caused by the new coronavirus at at at least twenty Indian airports. The country's Ministry of Health has put together a virus screening plan and strengthened the responsiveness of laboratories empowered to analyse suspicious cases.
Some companies with presence or commercial relations with Chinese territory are also taking measures to prevent the spread of the coronary Chinese virus, restricting the movements of their employees to the territory or temporarily closing their stores in the country. Google and others have already announced limiting travel to the country.
Amazon's boss, Jeff Bezos, announced that only critical travel is allowed and that company professionals returning from coronavirus-affected regions will have to work from home for two weeks before returning to the company offices. Facebook, Microsoft, Google and Apple are following similar protocols, the latter has already announced the temporary closure of their stores in China.
