This Thursday, the World Health Organisation placed Angola among the 13 African priority countries in preparation for the new coronavirus, due to strong links with China, and sent kits to 29 laboratories on the continent.
"The WHO has identified 13 priority countries in the region, which, because of their direct links or large volumes of travel to China, need to be particularly vigilant about the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV)", is read in a communication from the organisation, which sets out, in addition to Angola, Algeria, Ivory Coast, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.
"Since January 22, the WHO has received dozens of alerts regarding possible infections in 20 countries", announced the organisation, noting that "up to the beginning of the week there were only two laboratories, one in Senegal and one in South Africa, capable of testing samples and working together with the countries in the region".
Meanwhile, OMS experts are adding, four other countries have announced that they are already able to test samples and diagnose cases of Ghana infection, Madagascar, Nigeria and Sierra Leone, but the WHO will send "kits to 29 laboratories in the region, which will ensure that there is diagnostic capacity for the new virus and which may also lead to analyses of samples from neighbouring countries."
Treatment at the initial stage of infection is vital to prevent rapid spread of infection, which could overwhelm the fragile health systems in the region, alert the WHO.
China has today elevated to 563 dead and over 28 thousand infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak caused by a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (center), placed under quarantine.
In the last 24-hour period, there have been new cases of 73 deaths and 3.694.
Yeah.
The first person to die from the new coronavirus outside China was a Chinese citizen in the Philippines.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are other confirmed cases of infection in more than twenty countries, the last new case identified in Belgium on Tuesday.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared in mid-January an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
