The World Health Organisation (WHO) wants to freeze the false information about the new coronavirus outbreak and is working with Google to try to ensure that factual and reliable information is highlighted.
At the opening of the 146th session of the WHO Executive Board, the Director General, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus assured me that he will "fight the spread of rumours and misinformation" in relation to the coronavirus outbreak that has arisen in China causing viral pneumonias.
"We worked with Google to ensure that people looking for information about coronavirus see WHO information in their research results," he said.
The head of WHO also indicated that social platforms and networks such as Twitter, Facebook and Tiktok also took steps to "limit the dissemination of disinformation".
In its daily newsletter on the new coronavirus epidemic, which has already been declared an international public health emergency, the WHO indicated on Sunday that the outbreak is being surrounded by false or inaccurate information.
WHO teams are working "24 hours a day to identify more common rumours about the new coronavirus", such as posting false Internet advice associated with substances, treatments or drugs that should be taken.
On your Facebook page, for example, the WHO has published daily facts and demystications about the coronavirus.
On Friday, for example, it warned that the currently existing pneumonia vaccines do not protect against the new coronavirus found in China and that the new virus still needs its own vaccine, which does not yet exist.
WHO has also warned against the lack of specific drugs to combat disease
Yeah.
China has today elevated to 362 dead and more than 17 thousand infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak caused by coronavirus 2019-nCoV detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (center), placed under quarantine.
In Portugal, the preliminary analyses carried out on the 20 returnees, who arrived in Lisbon on Sunday, had negative results.
The 18th Portuguese and two Brazilians will remain in prophylactic isolation for four days in dedicated facilities for this purpose at Pulido Valente Hospital (Hospital Hospital Hospital in Lisbon Norte) and Lisbon Health Park.
