The President of the Republic welcomed this Tuesday that Portugal did not "so far" have cases of infection with the new coronavirus, but stressed that "no one is preserved" with the current movement of people and admitted effects on the global economy.
Questioned if he considers that the Portuguese authorities are doing everything possible to prevent the spread of this virus in Portugal, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa replied: "There is a combination of objective and subjective factors. Until now, we have been preserved from less good news on this subject, but no one is always preserved, with the circulation in the world, with the mobility in the world.
The head of state, who spoke to journalists on the balcony of the Bethlehem Palace in Lisbon, pointed out to his own family as an example, stating that he has grandchildren who arrived in Portugal from China at a time of "full outbreak of the virus" and that "it is only at the end of this week that they truly spend fifteen days on their staying here".
"Therefore, no one is preserved", said Marcellus Rebelo de Sousa, pointing out, however, that his grandchildren came "from an area of far-off China relative to the one where the problem was most serious".
The President of the Republic later emphasised that the coronavirus epidemic in China "affects the economic activity of a very powerful economy and therefore affects the economic activity of the world, or may affect".
"There may be some disturbances if there is a significant drop in production in an economy which determines a decrease in trade with other economies and therefore a slowdown in the world economy," he added, however, that "it is less important than people's health"
Yeah.
Calling again to evaluate how the Portuguese authorities have acted to contain the spread of this new virus, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa said that "there has been a collaboration of several entities to prevent the arrival in Portugal, to react in the event of reaching Portugal, to monitor and respond to the challenges ahead."
"And deep down, we're all learning. Portugal is learning, all countries are learning,"he said, concluding,"So far, what has been going on in Portugal has been good for all of us, and let us hope it will continue".
As for the National Health Service (SNS)'s response to possible cases of infection with the new coronavirus that would arise, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa expressed confidence, praising his way of acting.
According to the head of state, "people believe in the NHS and the exceptional capacity of SNS professionals, which is a resilience and, at the same time, a rapid response to difficult and unexpected challenges that always amazes because it goes beyond what people often fear are the weaknesses of the NHS".
"This has happened in multiple situations, this ability to respond, and is another reason to be very proud in the NHS, to defend the SNS, to thank and treat SNS professionals well," he said.
