The new virus has claimed 41 lives in all countries where there are confirmed cases of contagion according to the information made available this Saturday by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). Since the 31-December of 2019, there have been 1350 laboratory confirmed cases of infection with the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV), including 15 healthcare workers. All external cases to China refer to a recent travel history to Wuhan of contaminated people.
The Directorate-General for Health (DGS) has issued a statement evaluating the impact of the pneumonia outbreak by 2019-nCoV in the countries with confirmed cases: China (excluding Taiwan) 1323 cases; Taiwan three; Thailand five; Japan two; South Korea two; United States two; Singapore three; Vietnam two; Nepal one; Malaysia three; France three and Malaysia one.
At the moment, to better characterize the situation, the outbreak is still under investigation, including active case research and contact surveillance in order to identify new cases.
As stated in the DGS statement, this is reflected in the "delay between recording locally reported cases and reporting them on international circuits by competent authorities".
Since January 23, the city of Wuhan has had no flights or public transport and many public establishments closed down as cinemas.
ECDE considers the import of cases into the EU/EEA where the likelihood of secondary transmission is considered low once the practices of prevention and control of infection related to a possible imported case have been met.
Because there was no evidence of personal transmission to a person outside Chinese territory, the Emergency Committee for International Sanitary Regulations, meeting in 22 and 23 this month, decided not to declare an International Public Health Emergency.
Yeah. However, the decision may be amended at any time, with the Committee meeting again at the 27th in January.
To whom travelling to China, the DGS reinforces the following recommendations: follow the recommendations of the country's health authorities; avoid close contact with people who have signs of acute respiratory infection; wash their hands frequently, in particular after direct contact with sick people and avoid contact with animals.
