26 tourists from the Chinese province of Hubei, the center of the outbreak of the new coronavirus, quarantined in Hac-Sa, Coloane, are being transferred to an inn in Taipa, announced today by Macao authorities.
According to a statement from the Center for the Co-ordination of Contingency of the New Type of Coronavirus, the Government of the Macao Special Administrative Region (Macao SAR) will "gradually guide tourists" from the Hac-Saa Youth Hostel to the Marina Infante Inn, because "the four-bed and double-bed rooms have been filled".
If "the number of people in need of isolation" increases, the authorities would have to resort to 16-bed rooms"in the Youth Hostel, but"considering the risk of infection increases with the concentration of people, the government will use the Marina Infante Inn as an isolation centre".
Macao Health Services "have already made appropriate recommendations to the workers" of the hostel, to which police officers will be seconded to carry out "their management and safety work", he added.
The Marina Infante Inn has 312 rooms and is "outside the residential area, minimizing the impact on society", indicated in the same note.
On Wednesday, at the press conference of the New Coronavirus Contingency Coordination Centre, the representative of the Public Security Police Corps, Wong Kim Hong, indicated that near 200 Hubei residents were still in the territory, where no new visitors from the Chinese province entered since Monday.
"We continue to conduct checks on hotels, including possible illegal pensions, and we have not found any residents of Hubei or Wuhan," capital of the province, he said.
On the other hand, 520 persons from that province were prevented from entering Macao because they did not submit the attestation of non-coronavirus infection (2019-nCoV), indicated
Yeah. The provision of a medical declaration for the residents of Hubei came into force at noon on Monday (16h on Sunday in Lisbon).
China raised to 170 dead and more than 7.700 infected the balance of victims of the new coronavirus detected at the end of the year in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (centre).
In addition to mainland China, cases of infection have been reported in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States of America, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, Australia, Canada, Germany, France, Finland and the United Arab Emirates.
