Angola is among the 13 countries of top priority for the World Health Organisation (WHO) in the fight against the new coronavirus, which need to be closely monitored due to the large number of trips to and from China.
The Luanda Government has announced that it has imposed a quarantine obligation on all passengers from China and is currently under observation 40 citizens who have returned on flights in recent days. They live in Angola about 250 thousand Chinese, says Voice of America.
According to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Angola, Manuel Augusto, the quarantine applies to citizens of Angola, China or other nationalities who have come from China or who have been in contact with people affected, with the aim of preventing contagion with the coronavirus. "We already have a reference hospital at the Kwanza Barra, where 40 citizens arrived on flights a few days ago," added the head of Angolan diplomacy.
Over thirty thousand people have already been infected with the new coronavirus, and the latest balance is 638 deaths-- just one didn't occur in China.
In Mozambique, another African country with an official Portuguese language with strong economic ties with China, four Chinese citizens recently arrived in Maputo are currently under voluntary quarantine in a hotel, reporting to the Mozambican press.
The situation is generating some alarm among the citizens of the capital, who wonder why these people are kept in a hotel and not in a more appropriate place, also reports the Voice of America. Maputo's health director, Sheila Lobo, says that hospital quarantine will only be put on those who actually have symptoms of the disease.
Yeah.
Mozambique, however, is not part of the list of countries of African concern to the WHO, which are, in addition to Angola, South Africa, Algeria, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, Ghana, Mauritius, Nigeria, Kenya, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The WHO announced that additional manpower was deployed to seven of these 13 countries. By the end of the week, teams should reach all countries and the UN agency is also sending essential equipment to track and manage cases of suspected coronavirus infection at airports and other entry points.
The experience of countries in preventing and fighting Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2018 has led to increased monitoring capacity and the management of cases of infection, underlines the WHO.
