A genetic study released this Wednesday confirms that the new coronavirus originating in China was transmitted to humans through an unknown wild animal infected by bats. The study, conducted by Chinese scientists, including the Center for Disease Prevention and Control of China, analyzed the coronavirus genome of nine patients diagnosed with viral pneumonia in the city of Wuhan, where the outbreak began in December.
The work, published in the British medical publication The Lancet and which validates in the laboratory a thesis assumed by experts, suggests that the new coronavirus, provisionally designated by the World Health Organization as "2019-nCoV", had as its initial host a bat and was transmitted to people via a wild animal, unknown, which was sold on the market for live animals of Huanan in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province in central China.
Although cautiously, the authors of the study admit that the new coronavirus is not the result of a genetic mutation of another coronavirus, but may have entered human cells in the same way as the coronavirus that caused the Acute Grave Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), also identified for the first time in China, 2002 and 2003.
Researchers analyzed genome samples (genetic information) from 2019-nCoV- eight complete sequences and two partial- collected from nine patients with viral pneumonia. Eight of the patients attended Huanan's market, the rest were in a nearby hotel before they became ill.
According to the scientific team, the genetic sequences samples are almost identical, so the coronavirus will have emerged in humans very recently and been detected quickly.
China has today raised to 132 dead and more than five.900 infected the balance of victims of the new coronavirus identified at the end of the year in Wuhan
Yeah.
In addition to mainland China, cases of infection have been reported in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, Australia, Canada, Germany, France, Finland and the United Arab Emirates.
The World Health Organization has today decided to convene the Emergency Committee again on Thursday to determine whether the outbreak of the new coronavirus should be an international public health emergency.
