Macau authorities said this Friday that five hotels in Macao have closed temporarily due to the few tourists in the game's world capital due to the outbreak of the new coronavirus.
Four hotels had already closed the day before, today it was the turn of the Sofitel Hotel to announce that it is closed, said the head of the licensing and inspection department of the Macao Tourist Services Directorate, Ines Chan, at a press conference.
By Thursday, the Macao government had already announced the closure of four hotels: the Four Seasons Hotel, Grand Harbour Hotel, St. Regis Macao and Conrad Macao.
This closure follows the drastic drop in occupancy rates in Macao hotels.
Macau has already recorded ten cases of new coronavirus, one of which has already been released on Thursday.
On Tuesday, Macao's chief executive, Ho Iat Seng, announced that casinos would close at local 00h and for two weeks following confirmation of the tenth case of infection in the territory.
Game capital of the world, Macau is the only place in China where casino gambling is legal. They operate in the territory six dealerships: Macao Gaming Society, founded by Stanley Ho, Galaxy, Venetian (Sands China), Melco Resorts, Wynn and MGM.
On the same day, the head of the Macao government also ordered the closure of theaters, theaters, amusement parks in enclosed rooms, recreational machine rooms and video games, cyber cafes, pool and bowling rooms, saunas and massage parlors, beauty parlors, bodybuilding gyms, health club and karaoke establishments, night clubs, discos, dance rooms and cabaret.
The frequency of public transport has been reduced again and all public parks have been closed down, as is already the case with public services, schools and sports and cultural areas.
Yeah.
China has today elevated to 636 dead and over 31 thousand infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak caused by a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (center), placed under quarantine.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are other cases of infection confirmed in more than twenty countries. In Europe, the number of confirmed cases arrived on Thursday at 31, with new infections detected in the United Kingdom, Germany and Italy.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared in mid-January an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
