The reference laboratory in Portugal is available to assist the CPLP countries in diagnosing suspected cases of coronavirus and has already received requests for cooperation from Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde, the President of the institution told Lusa.
"We are always available to assist in what we are capable of and available," said the President of the National Institute of Health Dr. Ricardo Jorge (INSA), Fernando de Almeida.
The INSA and laboratories of the Community countries of Portuguese Language Countries (CPLP) are covered by a global protocol involving the public health institutes of these states.
Fernando de Almeida explained this agreement, which allows for the request of training and collaboration support at any time.
This was the case in Guinea-Bissau at the time of the threat of the Ebola virus and, more recently, in St Thomas and Prince, in the case of necrotizing cellulite, he recalled.
With regard to coronavirus, the INSA has already received "requests for cooperation support" from Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde.
This support may be given at the level of the training of professionals for the diagnosis or updating of the methodologies or in the analysis in Portugal of samples of the suspect cases found in those countries.
Fernando de Almeida recalled that the packaging of organic products presupposes specific training given to these countries by elements of the INSA, which, for its part, is certified by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to do so.
And he added that the INSA is able to obtain the results of the samples within a few hours of them entering the institute.
The President of the INSA underlines the contacts already received and welcomes the fact that these countries are concerned and are interested in ensuring a response, should this be necessary.
"We are watching. We are all preparing at global level,"he said.
Yeah.
China has today elevated to 636 dead and over 31 thousand infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak caused by a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (center), placed under quarantine.
In the last 24-hour hour hour, there have been seven deaths and three.143 new cases.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are other cases of infection confirmed in more than twenty countries. In Europe, the number of confirmed cases arrived on Thursday at 31, with new infections detected in the United Kingdom, Germany and Italy.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared in mid-January an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
