The new coronavirus may infect at least one in twenty people in the city of Wuhan, China, when a peak is reached in the coming weeks, according to scientists who have established models for the spread of the virus.
The trend borne in the cases reported in Wuhan "largely supports" the mathematical models that the London School of Hygiene Tropical is using to predict the transmission of the dynamic epidemic, according to the scientists of this institution, cited this Sunday by the Bloomberg financial information agency.
"Assuming current trends continue, we are projecting a peak in mid/late February" in Wuhan, said associate professor of infectious disease epidemiology Adam Kucharski at the London School of Hygiene Tropical, quoted by Bloomberg.
Kucharski, who works with mathematical analysis on infectious disease outbreaks, explained that "there is a lot of uncertainty, so be careful about choosing a single value for the peak, but it is possible based on current data to see a peak of prevalence above 5%.
Wuhan, the Chinese city where the 2019-nCoV virus appeared at the end of last year, has been quarantined since the 23 of January, and the movement of 11 million people is restricted.
Health authorities in China and around the world are anxious to know whether the largest known quarantine in the world is effective in containing pneumonia caused by the new virus in Wuhan and other cities in Hubei Province, where 60 million people live.
Mapping the coronavirus outbreak around the world, Kucharski and his colleagues at the British institution based their models on a set of assumptions about the 2019-nCoV virus
Yeah.
These include an incubation period of five,2 days, delay in the onset of symptoms to confirm 6,1-day infection and the risk of infection between the ten million people who have been identified as the most vulnerable in Wuhan.
Based on that data, a prevalence of 5% is about 500.000 total infections. In other words, often more than the 14.982 cases, which the provincial health authorities had reported in Wuhan up to 20:00 on Saturday night in China.
"The next two weeks are really critical of understanding what is happening", said Benjamin Cowling, the head of epidemiology and bioestatics at the University of Hong Kong, in an interview in Melbourne on Thursday quoted by Bloomberg.
They will also be critical, he warned, to know "whether the virus is spreading elsewhere or whether we have avoided what could be a global pandemic because of the control measures adopted and implemented so far".
The number of deaths resulting from the pneumonia outbreak caused by the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) rises to 813, of which 811 in mainland China, where the number of infected exceeds 37 thousand.
In the 24-hour run-up to the balance sheet this Sunday, the Chinese authorities recorded on mainland territory 89 deaths and 2.656 new cases of infection with the coronavirus found in December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (centre), placed under quarantine.
The new balance is already beyond the Acute Grave Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which between 2002 and 2003 has caused the death of 774 people around the world, most of whom in China, but the mortality rate remains lower.
So far, the only two deaths caused by the new coronavirus registered outside mainland China have occurred in the Philippines and Hong Kong.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are more than 350 cases of contagion confirmed in 25 countries
Yeah. In Europe, the number arrived on Sunday at 39, with two new infections detected in Spain in the United Kingdom.
The World Health Organisation (WHO), which declared an international public health emergency in mid-January, indicated on Saturday that cases of contagion reported daily in China are stabilising, but stressed that it was early to conclude that the epidemic had reached its peak.
Meanwhile, the Chinese Central Bank announced this Sunday that it will inject 300 billion yuan (43 billion dollars) next week to help companies involved in the fight against the viral epidemic.
The epidemic is paralyzing large areas of the country's economy and threatening them to slow down economically.
On Monday, the Bank of China will release the first tranche of special funds to help financial institutions lend to key companies involved in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
The lieutenant governor of the Bank of China, Liu Guoqiang, said on the website of the Chinese supervisor that nine major national banks, in addition to local banks in ten provinces and cities, are eligible to contract these funds.
We are talking about ten regions including Hubei Province, the epicenter of the new coronavirus epidemic, as well as Zhejiang, Guangdong, the Beijing capital and the Shanghai financial centre.
"This financial boost is intended to help national and local companies," said Liu quoted by the agency France Presse.
