This Wednesday, the World Health Organisation (WHO) called for a 675 million dollars fund (613 million euros) to combat the epidemic caused by the new coronavirus in the next three months.
"We are asking for 675 million dollars to fund the plan for the next three months, of which 60 million are intended to fund WHO operations and the rest is for countries that are particularly at risk," he called upon the Director of the WHO, Tedros Adhanom Gebreyesus, at a press conference.
Tedros Gebreyesus has admitted that "675 million dollars is a lot of money, but it is much less than the account that will have to be paid if you do not invest now".
The same responsible also announced that the United Nations specialized agency would first send protective equipment to 24 countries, including 500 thousand masks and 350 thousand pairs of gloves and that 250 thousand tests will be sent to more than 70 laboratories around the world.
An international expert mission will also travel to China "very soon", he said.
Containment measures and restrictions were extended all over China this Wednesday and abroad to contain the coronavirus epidemic that has already killed almost 500 people.
At the end of January, the WHO elevated the epidemic to the category of "international public health emergency".
To date, WHO has used this term only in rare cases of epidemics requiring a vigorous global response, including H1N1 swine flu in 2009, Zika virus in 2016 and Ebola fever, which have devastated part of the population of West Africa from 2014 to 2016 and the Democratic Republic of Congo since 2018.
China raised 490 dead and over 24.300 infected this Wednesday to balance out the pneumonia outbreak caused by a new coronavirus detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (centre), placed under quarantine
Yeah.
64 The deaths in China recorded in the last 24-hour period, according to Beijing authorities.
The first person to die from the new coronavirus outside China was a Chinese citizen in the Philippines.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are other confirmed cases of infection in more than twenty countries, the last new case identified in Belgium.
