Despite the first-stage agreement between the United States and China and a Brexit agreed at the end of January, "uncertainties remain about the perspective [of the world economy], including those involving the coronavirus", said this Wednesday Jerome Powell, President of the US Federal Reserve (Fed).
Powell referred to the Chinese virus at the Washington press conference following the Fed's two-day monetary policy meeting, which decided to maintain the management fee, but moved on to secondary aspects of the current expansionist strategy.
The risk of coronavirus for the economic climate is not mentioned in the official statement of the Fed meeting. But it was underlined at the press conference Powell gave.
The president of the US central bank, however, refused to "speculate" on this new risk that had arisen unexpectedly earlier this year, but stressed that it is "a very serious issue" that the Fed is "monitoring very carefully".
Powell noted that "the situation is still in its early stages and is very uncertain about how it will spread and what macroeconomic effects in China and its trading and neighbouring partners, and around the world".
Wuhan's coronavirus turned out to be, according to some analysts, the first black swan in 2020 that threatens to call into question the "cautious optimism for 2020" as designated by Powell this Wednesday- that international organisations advanced earlier this year, starting with the International Monetary Fund.
"With the easing of trade tensions and a non-chaotic Brexit, there are signs and reasons to expect economic acceleration," said Powell. But nothing is certain,"he added.
"The very uncertainty about commercial tensions continues, so there is a position to wait and see
Yeah. Is easing tension sustainable? We must be patient about the effects of the agreement between the USA and China. And in the meantime, the coronavirus came out,"emphasized the president of the Fed.
The continuing level of uncertainty was one of the aspects that Powell did not fail to mention more than once at the press conference: "First, the uncertainty about commercial policy remains high. Companies continue to identify it as a continuing risk. We still have two or three active trade negotiations. So it didn't disappear."
