The European Commission this Tuesday launched the European Civil Protection Mechanism in the face of the coronavirus outbreak that has already killed more than a hundred people in China and any Member State can benefit from this, but the Portuguese Government remains unannounced whether it intends to do so despite requests from Portuguese residents in Wuhan, epicenter of the new virus epidemic, to be removed as soon as possible from the country. Questioned by the Express several times, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not clarified whether or not to activate the European mechanism.
France, on the contrary, has already announced that it will use this mechanism to withdraw its citizens from China. It was at the request of China, moreover, that it was activated. "As the outbreak intensifies, the European Civil Protection Mechanism was activated after a request from France," the European Commission's Humanitarian Aid Service reported on Twitter, adding that two aircraft will be sent to Wuhan between Wednesday and Friday, in order to transport back to their French 250 and other European citizens whose countries so request, "regardless of nationality". The mechanism is used in natural disasters and other urgent situations and its activation enables European countries to have logistical and financial support from the European Union. It has already been activated on numerous occasions, notably in the context of the 2010 earthquake in Haiti, the refugee crisis in Greece, in 2016, and more recently during the forest fires that devastated Chile in 2017
Yeah.
Although it is known that Portugal has considered following the example of France, no decision has been taken yet and about the 20 Portuguese living in Wuhan has only been said, in a communique sent by the Portuguese embassy in Beijing to their e-mail addresses, that "every step" has been initiated to withdraw them by air. (The possibility of taking them by land to Shanghai in eastern China, and from there to Portugal, but without any concrete effects), resorted to "a chartered civilian aircraft that will land in the city and from there will proceed directly to Portugal". According to the embassy,'this is the plan that is being considered in Lisbon', and Beijing has already begun to ask for'the proper permits'to go ahead with the withdrawal of Portuguese citizens.
Several of these Portuguese told the Express that they do not have any information about the date of departure or about the transport to Portugal and what is supposed to happen on arrival, where they will be taken, if necessary, home, to the hospital. Grace Freitas, Director General of Health, said that the Portuguese residents of Wuhan "will come to Portugal as any other asymptomatic passenger".
Upon arrival in Portugal, "and as they com e from the epicentre of the disease", a "small medical history, that is, an epidemiological inquiry, will be carried out to find out if they have been in contact with patients" infected with the new coronavirus or if they have been in contact with animals. Depending on "initial risk, surveillance may be passive or active". "They can be sent home, we can ask to be isolated in the rooms and we can also call several times a day
Yeah. If we notice that they have hardly left the house in the last four days, had no contact with patients and live animals, there is a very low risk and are subject to very low surveillance measures,"the Director-General said, comparing monitoring to monitoring with other patients. "First you make the diagnosis and then a therapeutic plan."
If there are symptoms thereafter, Portuguese citizens should contact the health authorities recommended by the DGS and indicate if they have had contact with other people and may be advised not to leave the house. Grace Freitas further explained that there will be "different health protocols" if Portuguese residents in Wuhan "are already sick in the Chinese city or show symptoms on board". "They can board there without signs, symptoms and develop the signs and symptoms on board. There is also a protocol for this,"he said, clarifying that it will be up to the commander of the plane to alert the Portuguese authorities to this.
According to the latest assessment of the Chinese authorities, 106 people have already died due to the coronavirus outbreak and more than four.000 are infected. The Wuhan region, where the first case was detected, was quarantined but this did not isolate the problem. In addition to mainland China, cases of infection have been reported in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, France, Germany (where three new cases have since been confirmed), Australia and Canada.
