The World Health Organisation (WHO) announced this Saturday that it will support the contingency plan of the Ministry of Health of St Thomas and Prince in the event of cases of the new coronavirus being detected.
"The problem is that the country needs help to be ready in time (...) to be able to implement the contingency plan and be prepared for a possible entry of the disease into the country", said the WHO representative in the country, Anne Ancie.
In a communication to the country, the WHO representative in St Thomas and Prince did not specify what kind of help their organisation could give to the archipelago.
Anne Ancie mentioned that in Africa there is still no suspicious case of coronavirus, but "that doesn't stop you from doing intense work" on the continent.
The Government are-tomense has set up a surveillance unit at the capital airport and an isolation space at the main hospital in the country for the management of possible coronavirus cases.
"We know that the Ministry of Health is developing a contingency plan aimed at quickly detecting and isolating suspected cases of the disease so it is not disseminated in the country. It is work that is in line with international regulations," said the WHO responsible.
Anne Ancie assures me that she is working "very closely" with the US government to prepare for possible cases in the country.
"I visited the airport to see the work that is being done to contain the port of entry of the coronavirus in the country. If a case of the disease appears in the country it has to be a case that has come from outside and the gateway will be the airport," said the representative of the WHO.
The President of the Republic, Evaristo Carvalho, received on Friday the Minister of Health to review government measures to prevent coronavirus
Yeah.
Meanwhile, the head of state Saint tomense expressed solidarity with the Chinese counterpart and the Chinese people because of the deaths caused by the coronavirus.
In a message to Xi Ginping, Evaristo Carvalho said he was "convinced that, as in the past in a similar situation, the strong and relevant measures taken by the Chinese authorities will have expected effects and will contribute to mitigating the harmful consequences of this terrible disease".
Evaristo Carvalho stressed that "this difficult time for the government and the Chinese people will be one of great courage and hope in the certainty that under the leadership of the Chinese President the People's Republic of China will be able to overcome this further stage".
St. Thomas and Prince have 17 students in the city of Wuhan, epicenter of the coronavirus.
In a statement from the Council of Ministers dating from February 06, the executive determines the establishment of a "daily communication line" and the release of a sum for students are-tomense in Wuhan, a Chinese city affected by the coronavirus, indicates a statement from the Council of Ministers.
The new coronavirus, which emerged in December in the city of Wuhan (central China), has already contaminated more than 34.500 people and caused 722 deaths in mainland China, according to the current balance sheet of the Chinese health authorities.
The epidemic continues to spread throughout the world, with over 320 confirmed cases in thirty countries and territories. The demand for a treatment and vaccine is still being studied.
Guterres considered that the new coronavirus crisis needs "very strong international cooperation and solidarity".
"We must avoid stigmatisation which can sometimes accompany a situation like this, in which suddenly people who have nothing to do with it are stigmatized for one reason or another," he added.
"I think it's important to maintain a perspective that takes into account human rights," he concluded.
