The Chinese community in Portugal is "outraged" by the section "Privileged Information" from an RFM radio program which, on Tuesday morning, satirized the issue of coronavirus deaths in China, President Y Ping Chow said today.
"The community is outraged by this joke", Lusa told the president of the Chinese League in Portugal, Y Ping Chow, who demands an "apology" to the administration of that radio.
In the "Privileged Information" section of the "Coffee in the Morning" program, available online, the character'Gleidson'of comedian Luis Franco-Bastos is questioned by the presenters about the death of 304 people (Tuesday numbers) in China by coronavirus, to which replies: "wow, what a disgrace. How many more? 378 billion? Oh, less. Even more wi-fi. Whoever survives puts content in the insta easier.
Again urged on the "gravity of the situation", Franco-Bastos replies: "Guys, Chinese has a lot. You know how little we need to be careful before it disappears? Tall, handsome, rich, funny man. That's a little, you know, it's a species that has to be preserved. Now Chinese? There's a lot. Relax."
In Lusa's statements, Ping Chow pointed out that "humor is interesting yes, but not everything".
"It may be humour, but it couldn't be done at a time when people are so focused on supporting and calming people who are worried about the virus. It caused a lot of uneasiness in the community and we want to talk to the radio administration,"said the Porto-based businessman.
Lusa tried to listen to the RFM, but this has not been possible so far.
And Ping Chow added that the community relies on "the support of many Portuguese, who found what was done on the radio inappropriate"
Yeah.
Ahead of the fact that "no one from the Chinese community" wants to move "to the courts" calling for "racial discrimination", the president of the Chinese League in Portugal believes that the "issue cannot go without an apology".
"Privileged Information --Gleidson comments coronavirus" is also available on the official website of Luis Franco-Bastos on the Instagram network, where comments critical of humorist statements are multiplied.
China raised today to 490 dead and more than 24.300 infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak caused by a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (center), placed under quarantine.
64 The deaths in China recorded in the last 24-hour period, according to Beijing authorities.
The first person to die from the new coronavirus outside China was a Chinese citizen in the Philippines.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are other confirmed cases of infection in more than twenty countries, the last new case identified in Belgium.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared on Thursday an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
