A group of Portuguese experts considers that Portugal may not be prepared to contain cases of the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) that may arise. And they give as an example a suspicious case which, in the end, was not confirmed, was not immediately forwarded to one of the reference hospitals.
In an article published in the scientific journal of the Order of Physicians, the Portuguese Medical Acta, Raquel Duarte, the Faculty of Medicine of Porto, Isabel Furtado, the Infecciology Service of the Porto University Hospitality Centre, Luis Sousa, the Public Health Department of the ARS of the North, and Carlos Carvalho, Also from this ARS and the Abel Salazar Biomedical Science Institute, they make a point of the situation regarding the epidemic that originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan.
"In Portugal, contingency plans have been re-activated and new guidelines for health services and airports have been published. However, it is possible that we are not yet ready, even to face a suspicious case of 2019-nCoV,"they point out, referring to what is being done in Portugal.
"The lack of preparation we witnessed dealing with a single suspicious case (fortunately, unconfirmed) should be used to help healthcare and services correct their mistakes and become better prepared", they justify. For these experts, "these lessons should have been learned a long time ago, following the emergencies of avian influenza H5N1, SARS, the H1N1 pandemic (which happened in 2009 and was initially known as influenza A) and MERS-CoV".
On February 1st, there was a suspicious case which took several hours before it was referred to St John's Hospital in Porto, one of the reference units to receive these cases. He was an Italian technician who had been in China and who felt bad when he was in a footwear factory in Felgueiras
Yeah. The factory owner complained of a lack of information and the Italian technician spent several hours in a fire ambulance until he was taken to the hospital.
In statements to the public, the Union of Emergency Technicians for Pre-Hospitality criticized the delay in the dissemination of standards and the lack of disposable and disinfection material. said to have met with INEM to assess the need to reformulate information and to se e the material available. The Secretary of State for Health, Antonio Lacerda Sales, added that most of the means already have equipment available, such as lab coats and masks.
Even in the article in the Medical Acts, experts say that, rather than worry about the numbers, "we must ensure that the country is ready to contain the disease immediately after its introduction through suspicion or apparently healthy contact".
On the subject of quarantine, since it was adopted in China and in several countries in the case of returnees, Portugal does not have a mandatory quarantine, but 20 return citizens from Wuhan are in prophylactic isolation for 14 days, they point out that "important concerns about freedoms must be considered, but public health must always take precedence".
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The authors of the article stress that "the 2019-nCoV epidemic is also a test of our ability to face a threat that will be repeated over time". "Each time, we must learn from our mistakes and be better prepared than before," they say.
This Wednesday, the Director-General for Health, Grace Freitas, revealed that the Directorate-General for Health met with regional health administrations, health authorities, INEM, the National Health Institute Dr
Yeah. Ricardo Jorge (Insa) and with the network of national laboratories to prepare a second wave of services in the event of an escalation of cases. Contingency plans for hospitals are also being revisited.
The Director-General also met with the National Civil Aviation Authority and it was established that airlines flying directly from China to Portugal will distribute on board leaflets containing information on the criteria of suspicious cases and the indication to call SNS24 (808 24 24 24).
