SINGAPORE — Singapore confirmed seven new cases of novel coronavirus on Saturday (Feb 8), including a taxi driver and a private hire car driver, taking the country's tally to 40. 
 Of the 40 confirmed cases, four are in critical condition, with one requiring additional oxygen support. Two have been discharged, said the Ministry of Health (MOH) in a press release. 
 In addition to a taxi driver and a private hire driver, the new cases include two employees of Yong Thai Hang, the health products shop linked to a local transmission cluster, and another two who attended a business meeting at Grand Hyatt hotel linked to a cluster of cases. 
 All seven patients have not travelled to China recently, said the ministry 
 MOH said that further investigations and contact tracing have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases, adding that it had been assisted by the police. 
 Cases 8 and 9, as well as Cases 31, 33 and 38, are linked to The Life Church and Missions Singapore (146B Paya Lebar Road). This is a possible cluster involving five cases (Cases 8, 9, 31, 33 and 38). 
 Nine of the confirmed cases (Cases 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28, 34 and 40) are linked to the cluster associated with Yong Thai Hang (24 Cavan Road). 
 Three of the confirmed cases (Cases 30, 36 and 39) are linked to the private business meeting held at Grand Hyatt Singapore from Jan 20 to 22. 
 Investigations on these clusters are ongoing. 
 Contact tracing is underway for the other four locally transmitted cases to establish any links to previous cases or travel history to mainland China. 
 MOH said it is working with the Ministry of Transport to reach out to all taxi and private hire drivers on the steps they should take to protect themselves
. 
 "For the general public, the risk of infection from transient contact, such as on public transport or in public places, is assessed to be low," MOH said. 
 Senior Minister of State for Transport Janil Puthucheary said that the development is understandably of concern to drivers, passengers and the transport ministry, which he said will continue to work with its tripartite partners to help drivers. 
 "We had rolled out a tripartite care package recently and we will do more," Dr Janil said on Facebook. 
 "We will meet with drivers and representatives from the industry to hear their concerns, and to explain our plans." 
 "For now, drivers and their companies have stepped up the cleaning of their vehicles, and wind down their windows after trips for better ventilation." 
 ABOUT THE SEVEN NEW CASES 
 Case 34 
 A 40-year-old female Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to China. She is currently warded in an isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID). 
 She reported onset of symptoms on Jan 27, and had visited two general practitioner (GP) clinics on Jan 27 and Feb 1 respectively. 
 As she works at Yong Thai Hang, she was identified as a close contact of Cases 19 and 20, and placed under home quarantine on Feb 4. 
 She was admitted to NCID on Feb 6, and subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on Feb 7 afternoon. 
 Prior to hospital admission, she had gone to work at Yong Thai Hang, and stays at Sin Ming Road. 
 Case 35 
 A 64-year-old male Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation room at the Singapore General Hospital (SGH). 
 He reported onset of symptoms on Jan 30, and had visited Bukit Merah Polyclinic on Jan 31. 
 He was admitted to SGH on Feb 6. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on Feb 7 afternoon
. 
 Prior to hospital admission, he worked as a taxi driver and had largely stayed at his home at Henderson Crescent after onset of symptoms, except to visit Redhill Market and a hawker centre at Bukit Merah for meals. 
 Case 36 
 A 38-year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident with no recent travel history to China but had been in Johor Baru from Jan 25 to 28. She is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. 
 She reported onset of symptoms on Jan 24, and had visited a GP clinic on Feb 1. 
 She was isolated and admitted to KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital on Feb 4. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on Feb 7 afternoon. 
 Prior to hospital admission, she had attended the same private business meeting as Cases 30 and 39 at Grand Hyatt Singapore from Jan 20 to 22, and visited a family member at Ng Teng Fong General Hospital (NTFGH). She stays at Bukit Batok Street 31. 
 Case 37 
 A 53-year-old male Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. 
 He reported onset of symptoms on Jan 30, and had visited two GP clinics on Feb 1 and 3 respectively. 
 He was admitted to NTFGH on Feb 6, and transferred to NCID on Feb 8. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on Feb 7 afternoon. 
 Prior to hospital admission, he worked as a private hire car driver and stays at Jurong East Street 32. 
 Case 38 
 A 52-year-old female Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to China. She is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. 
 She reported onset of symptoms on Feb 3 and visited Choa Chu Kang Polyclinic on Feb 4. 
 She was admitted to NCID on Feb 7. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on Feb 8 morning. 
 Prior to hospital admission, she had visited The Life Church and Missions Singapore, Marina Bay Sands, Chinatown and Plaza Singapura and had travelled by public transport. 
 She stays at Choa Chu Kang Avenue 3
. 
 Case 39 
 A 51-year-old male Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to China, but who had travelled to Malaysia from Jan 23 to Feb 2. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. 
 He reported onset of symptoms on Jan 29, and had visited two GP clinics on Feb 3 and 5 respectively. 
 He was admitted to NCID on Feb 6. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on Feb 8 morning. 
 Prior to hospital admission, he had attended the same private business meeting as Cases 30 and 36 at Grand Hyatt Singapore from Jan 20 to 22. 
 He stays at Jurong West Central. 
 Case 40 
 A 36-year-old male Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. 
 He reported onset of symptoms on Jan 30, and had visited a GP clinic on the same day. 
 As he works at Yong Thai Hang (24 Cavan Road), he was identified as a close contact of Cases 19 and 20, and placed under home quarantine on Feb 4. 
 He was admitted to NCID on Feb 7. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on Feb 8 morning. 
 Prior to hospital admission, he went to work at Yong Thai Hang. 
 He stays at Bedok North Street. 
 On Friday, Singapore raised the Dorscon level to Orange following several cases of novel coronavirus without any links to previous cases or travel history to mainland China. 
 This means the disease is deemed severe and spreads easily from person to person, but has not spread widely and is being contained. Moderate disruption is expected, due to measures such as quarantine and visitor restrictions at hospitals. 
 A second flight bringing Singaporeans and their family members back from Wuhan, Hubei is expected to arrive in Singapore on Sunday morning. 
 At least 722 people have died from the virus in China while more than 34,000 have been infected, according to the latest official figures.
