In the wake of outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, innumerable heartwarming incidents are coming forward and one such story is leaving the Internet teary-eyed.
A video of an old man diagnosed with COVID-19 visiting his sick wife, who was also diagnosed with the virus, has been trending online and it is one of the most heartbreaking things you will see today.
Watch the video:
The video was shared on Twitter by People’s Daily China’s with the caption, "I’ll love you forever, every single day of forever: An 87-yr-old man diagnosed with #COVID19 held an infusion bottle to visit his wife, also a #COVID19 patient, from the ward next door and patiently gave her water and food. Hope you recover soon!"
According to the publication, the old man was admitted in the ward next to his wife and visited to take care of her. In the viral clip, he can be seen holding the infusion bottle, giving her water and food as the ailing wife rests on the hospital bed.
The video left netizens emotional and praying for the speedy recovery of both the husband and wife. One user wrote, "I hope that the love will overcome the virus." Another user said, "Whatever happens they’ll be together. A love like that will never be severed."
Take a look at the reactions:
What is true love? This is true love.
I teared up watching this. God speed.
This is true love so beautiful to see! Wishing them a speedy recovery.
Hope they both recover very soon!
May their love be everlasting and healthy!
God be with both of these people.
Wishing you two a speedy recovery!
No virus is strong enough to stop loved ones being taken care by their near ones.
Hope, you both are recover soon!
At the time of writing this article, the video had over 124.6k views, 707 retweets and 3.1k likes.
The World Health Organisation on February 5 said there are "no known effective therapeutics against this 2019-nCoV (virus) and the WHO recommends enrollment into a randomized controlled trial to test efficacy and safety", news agency Reuters reported.
The total number of deaths from the virus outbreak as reported on Thursday stood at 1,367 with 59,804 confirmed cases.
