A shadowy church in South Korea has become the focus of the coronavirus outbreak in the country. At the heart of it is a 60-year-old coronavirus patient who may have come in contact with nearly 1200 people.
As South Korea battles to control the viral infection, the role of a religious congregation has come under the scanner.
On Sunday, the East Asian nation reported 123 new confirmed coronavirus cases and a fourth death from the virus, taking total infections to 556.
More than half the additional cases were found to be linked to a Shincheonji Church of Jesus congregation in the southeastern city of Daegu after a 61-year-old woman known as "Patient 31" who attended services at the church tested positive for the virus last week.
What makes Patient 31 special? The woman had no recent record of overseas travel.
While authorities call her "super spreader", the locals have dubbed her "crazy ajumma (Korean for aunty)". Diagnosed with pneumonia-like symptoms on February 18, the sexagenarian resisted doctors’ recommendations to get tested for coronavirus not once but twice.
Aunty's day out
The Daegu woman's story is nothing short of a Hollywood-style caper but the reality is quite grim. She was first admitted to a local hospital after an accident on February 7. While in hospital, she developed a fever but refused to get tested.
She was finally tested on February 17 and a day later was diagnosed with coronavirus.
But between first entering the hospital and finally being confirmed positive for COVID-19, Patient 31 stepped out on at least four different occasions. All very public places.
From a buffet restaurant to a Korean-style public bath and then to church twice, Patient 31 is estimated to have come in contact with some 1,160 people.
South Korean authorities are now pressed as they deal with the ramifications of the woman's trip around Daegu.
Church becomes epicentre
The biggest spread came from her attendance of the Sunday services at a branch of the mysterious Shincheonji Church of Jesus.
Some 1,000 Shincheonji church followers who attended Sunday services with her have been quarantined at their homes while authorities screen them for the virus. Health authorities are also trying to monitor thousands of others.
The Shincheonji church blamed the woman for the spread of the disease, saying it has been advising followers since late January to stay home if they had travelled overseas or were experiencing even mild cold-like symptoms.
Health officials were screening some 9,300 church followers and said that 1,261 of them have exhibited cough and other symptoms. The authorities are scrambling to find churchgoers because many followers don't reveal their affiliation owing to the sect's reputation.
All 74 sites operated by the Shincheonji Church have been closed and churchgoers have been told to instead watch services online for a sect whose leader claims to be an angel of Christ, but who is dismissed by many outsiders as a cult leader.
Its teachings revolve largely around the Book of Revelation, a chapter of the New Testament known mostly for its apocalyptic foreshadowing.
Authorities are trying to determine how Patient 31 contracted coronavirus given that she had no travel history with China. Now, church members have admitted to conducting evangelical missions with Koreans in northeastern China, some of whom were invited to South Korea.
Officials are also investigating a possible link between churchgoers and the spike in infections at the Cheongdo hospital, where many have been infected, mostly patients at a mental illness ward. The hospital has also recorded South Korea's fourth death from coronavirus.
Church or Doomsday cult?
Shincheonji, which translates as new heaven and new earth, was established in 1984 by Lee Man-hee, who has been accused by other Christian groups as a false prophet or a cult leader.
The church describes Lee as the Promised Pastor, an attendant of Jesus sent to testify what he claims are the fulfilled prophecies from the Book of Revelation. The church boasts of a membership of more than 1,50,000.
Shincheonji followers believe Lee Man-hee is immortal and has an eternal life, said Ji-il Tark at Busan Presbyterian University in South Korea.
To propagate their belief, they often approach their relatives and acquaintances or sneak to other churches without telling them they are Shincheonji members.
Tark said Shincheonji followers are likely more vulnerable to virus infections as they often sit very closely on the floor during services. At Shincheonji, attending church-related gatherings isn’t an option, but a requirement, he said.
Rituals followed at Shincheonji may have further exacerbated the spread of the virus as church members are expected to kneel 10cm apart and hold hands with each other.
One member told New York Times that churchgoers are restricted from wearing glasses or masks in premises.
Also a part of training? Not fearing diseases. For members of Shincheonji, getting sick is a "sin" because it "prevents them from doing God’s work".
Shincheonji founder Lee has termed coronavirus, "an act of the devil who saw the rapid growth of Shincheonji and wants to destroy our advancement."
After Patient 31's diagnosis was confirmed, the church is allegedly said to have told followers to continue their mission in small groups and deny any affiliation -- a charge that was denied officially.
Interestingly, the Shincheonji also claims to have a big congregation in China's Wuhan -- the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak.
