Haikou / China / February 20. /tass/ Authorities in southern China's Hainan Province have called for support for the island's tourism industry, which is the name card of the region, This is the loss of a new Colorado outbreak. This is what the governor of shenxiaomin province said.
Hainan has rich tourism potential. At present, many tourist attractions and catering enterprises are facing difficulties, Some people are totally in the background of preventing and treating diseases caused by the new coronavirus, "Sanya Daily quoted him as saying.
As the governor said, In this context, it is necessary to develop targeted tourism support measures: a more flexible approach should be taken in providing loans to tourism enterprises. Industry, optimize the insurance system.
This week, Shen visited the main tourist areas of the island, Sanya Daily reported, In order to personally monitor the necessary local measures to prevent and control the disease, and to understand the impact of the Colorado virus epidemic on the province's tourism industry, Assess the main constraints and challenges of market recovery after the decline of the epidemic
About According to newspaper reports, the governor also visited a hospital in the province to treat patients with coronavirus. Thank the staff of medical institutions for helping patients and for their efforts in the front line of disease prevention and treatment.
By 2025, the Ministry of Hainan will be changed into an "international tourism and consumption center". China island is often referred to as the "East Hawaii" natural landscape, tropical forest, developed hotel network, beaches and more than 1900 coastlines. It attracts tourists from the most remote parts of the world.
In 2019, 83 million Chinese and foreign tourists visited, up 8% year on year. Last year, Hainan's tourism revenue increased by 11% to about 105 billion yuan.
Corona flash
At the end of December 2019, Wuhan, the most populous city in Central China, broke out with 2019 ncov new coronavirus. The World Health Organization recognizes this as an international emergency and calls it a pandemic. Outside China, outbreaks have been found in 25 countries, including Russia.
The death toll in China is 2118, with more than 16000 people recovering, according to data on Thursday morning.
At all times of virus transmission, the number of people infected has exceeded 74500. In Hainan, 168 people were infected, 4 died, 84 were cured and discharged.
