Tass news agency, February 17, molecular biology in the United States got the first three-dimensional transformation of 2019 ncov coat protein, which led to the outbreak of pneumonia in China. The materials help scientists develop vaccines and drugs to fight the disease, the researchers wrote in an article published by the biorxiv Electronic Science Library.
"We found biophysical and structural evidence that proteins in the 2019-ncov shell attach to the receptors of the contaminated cells and are stronger than the SARS virus." In addition, we confirmed that some known antisera, neutralizing SARS, could not be linked to the new coronaveros protein.
Biologist from the University of Texas, Austin, and colleagues from the National Institute of allergy and infectious diseases, first used cryoelectron microscopy The shell structure of a very high resolution virus was reconstructed. In this way, they are closer to disclosing the exact human to human transmission mechanism of 2019 ncov.
To do this, scientists forced human embryonic cell culture to reproduce fragments of the virus's protein shell.
About The researchers separated these particles from the cells, especially frozen them, and studied them through a low-temperature electron microscope, and finally obtained a three-dimensional image of their structure.
These photos confirm that, on the whole, the RBD protein of SARS and 2019-ncov looks like, but they suddenly find that a new coronavirus is not weakly linked to ac2 receptor, but much stronger than SARS. This may be due to the high infection rate and abnormal transmission speed of new diseases caused by coronavirus. In addition, scientists have found small inserts at key sites of similar RBD proteins in the most infectious forms of influenza viruses.
This addition, along with other structural nuances in proteins, makes the new coronavirus less likely to attack three types of antibodies, the researchers note, Scientists from SARS carrier blood. The scientists hope that the photos they get will help open up drugs that can kill viruses before they enter the cell or prevent them from reproducing inside the cell.
New corona veros
At present, more than 70500 new coronavirus cases have been confirmed in China. It is estimated that 1770 people died and 10800 returned to health. Infection has been detected in almost all parts of China, including Beijing and Shanghai
About Cases have also been found in more than a dozen other countries, including Russia, the United States, Thailand, France, India and Japan. At the end of January, the World Health Organization announced an international emergency related to the outbreak of pneumonia.
The first viral evidence came in December 2019. As early as December 31, Chinese authorities informed the World Health Organization of the outbreak of unknown pneumonia in Wuhan, China's largest industrial center with the largest population. 11 million person On January 7, Chinese experts identified Colorado virus 2019 ncov, and who released the official name of the disease on February 11, The virus is caused by covid-19) coronavirus release 2019.
The new viruses belong to the same class as the recognized SARS and mers pathogens and the Middle East fever. In the past decade, these two viruses have claimed hundreds of lives in the Middle East and East Asia, and have repeatedly caused epidemics, Spread through camels and poultry. According to scientists, bats are the original vectors of the 2019 ncov virus.
The pathogens of all three diseases belong to the so-called coronavirus. Their infection causes similar symptoms: fever, cough, respiratory problems, and constant phlegm.
About The incubation period lasted several weeks, and then fever began almost immediately. In general, about half of patients die of malnutrition, complications or related infections without care.
