New York, February 10. /tass/ The stock market index showed modest growth on Monday, but market participants remain concerned about the global impact of the coronavirus outbreak. Monday's Dow Jones index on the New York Stock Exchange (local time) was 11:30, local time (19:30) The S & P 500 index, which is composed of the largest market companies in the United States, rose 11.3 points + 0.34% to 339, while the NASDAQ electronic trading index rose 56.9 points + 0.61% to 9578. Gold rose 0.27% to $1577.50 per troy ounce from the previous session, while WTI crude for March delivery rose 0.79% to $49.93 per barrel.
"Investors privately expressed concern that the Colorado virus outbreak would have a negative impact on the world economy." -Comments by Spartan capital seqtrities Peter Cardillo, head of sales at Reuters.
Worried that the outbreak of coronavirus will produce domino effect in China's economy, Allianz Mohammed El Erian, chief economic adviser of American cable TV company, spoke in an interview with cable TV company on Monday
。 First, the entire region where the virus broke out was paralyzed, and he pointed out that the consequences then spread to the entire economy, destroying trade and consumption. People who produce and travel. If the spread of the virus cannot be controlled, the process will spread, affecting international trade, raw material supply and travel. "
Kevin hasset, an American economist, agrees China's long-term holidays and quarantine measures may lead to a decline in China's GDP, which in turn will have a significant impact on the commodity market, In an interview with CNN, he pointed out that the oil market and industrial supply will also be disturbed. -According to some Wall Street experts, GDP will lose 3 to 0.5 percentage points in the first quarter. "
At the end of December 2019, pneumonia caused by 2019 ncov virus broke out in Wuhan, a big city in China. The World Health Organization recognizes this as an international emergency and calls it a pandemic. Outside China, outbreaks have been detected in 24 countries, including Russia. Chinese authorities have confirmed more than 40200 deaths In the new cases of coronavirus infection, 909 died and 3300 recovered. Human beings.
