Yekaterinburg, February 18 - Russian news agency. Coronavirus tests on people who came from China earlier to the Qiuming quarantine station were negative. Galina sharush, director of the Russian Federation's Consumer Protection Agency in Qiuming, told reporters on Tuesday.
On February 5, two fighters of the Russian armed forces delivered "144 – 128 Russians and 16 CIS citizens" from Hubei Province to the Qiuming medical rehabilitation center. They were all quarantined for 14 days and no one had any disease. During their stay at the centre, four patients were taken to the hospital of infection for reasons unrelated to coronavirus.
The test results provided by Qiuming scientific research institute are all negative. "
From Novosibirsk to now, vector has only provided 90 results, all of which are negative, and the rest will be negative in an hour and a half, she added. If they are also negative, the national health director will sign the quarantine closure order.
Inna kulkova, director of the State Health Bureau, told reporters that people could leave the center on Wednesday. Luggage is temporarily closed and will be distributed after the end of restrictive measures under video surveillance.
About In addition, the upper suit will be provided, steam treated and placed in a signed package. Quarantine will also end for those who have been evacuated from China and treated in infection hospitals.
Chinese authorities informed the World Health Organization on December 31, 2019 that an unknown outbreak of pneumonia occurred in Wuhan, central China. Experts have discovered the pathogen of a disease - a new coronavirus. Who recognizes the international significance of an emergency outbreak and officially calls the disease covid-19. In mainland China, the number of infected people has exceeded 724000, the number of dead people has exceeded 1.8 million, and the number of cured people has reached 1250. According to who, 794 cases of covid-2019 were found in 25 countries outside China, including 3 deaths.
