As global concern over the coronavirus outbreak has prompted scientists to crack an antidote to contain the spread, a BJP MLA from Assam made a bizarre statement suggesting people to use cow urine and dung to treat the deadly virus.
At a time when the coronavirus outbreak has claimed over 3,000 lives globally and a few cases have been detected in India, Suman Haripriya, a BJP MLA of Hajo assembly constituency in Assam, said: "Coronavirus is an airborne disease and it can be cured by using 'gaumutra'(cow urine) and cow dung."
Not just this, Suman Haripriya even said a 'hawan' (offering prayers to gods in front of fire), using cow dung, can be performed in China to purify the country's air. China's Wuhan is the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak.
"The rishi munis (saints) had performed hawan by using cow dung and the air of about five-kilometre radius area was purified... Our government can also try to do this," Suman Haripriya said.
Suman Haripriya said that saints, in ancient times, made panchamrit by using cow urine, milk and honey which cured all their ailments and they managed to live a thousand years.
"Cow urine and cow dung have many medicinal qualities. In ancient times, the saints kept cows in their ashrams and they lived in a thousand years, but how it possible? They had made panchamrit by using cow urine, milk, honey and all their ailments were cured by using it," he said.
Suman Haripriya left the Assam Assembly astounded with her comments as discussions on smuggling of cattle to Bangladesh ensued.
Listing a few more benefits of cow dung, Suman Haripriya said that cancer can also be cured by using it as a remedy. She said that lost her only brother who was a cancer patient.
"Cancer also can cure by using cow urine, cow dung... Coronavirus is an airborne disease and it can also be cured," the BJP MLA said.
Suman Haripriya further said: "We can use alternative medicine to cure cancer. In an Ayurvedic hospital in Gujarat, the cow dung is applied to the cancer patients. They are given panchamrit prepared from cow urine and got a lot of success. Many Ayurvedic institutes and Gosala (cow shelter) have used it."
