Moscow, March 26. /tass/ The G20 special summit on Thursday will bring together leaders of the world's 20 most developed and developed economies in the form of a videoconference, In this regard, my delegation welcomes the work of the joint United Nations Programme on HIV / AIDS (UNAIDS) and the joint United Nations Programme on HIV / AIDS (UNAIDS). Saudi Arabia holds the presidency of the group of 20 this year.
The traditional annual summit of the group of 20 is scheduled to be held in the kingdom in November, However, due to the severity of the Colorado virus's spread, the G20 Member States had to hold a special summit. However, unprecedented preventive measures, including border closures and quarantine measures, have been taken by countries around the world to deal with the Colorado virus epidemic, Forcing world leaders to abandon the conference and turn it into a conference call. The exact time for the start of the summit has not been officially determined and is expected to take place in the afternoon in European countries.
"Saudi Arabia's king, Salman bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud, will chair the G-20 emergency summit." As Saudi Arabia's finance minister, Mohammed bin Abdullah jadaan, said, This meeting will help coordinate the efforts of major countries in the world to deal with the Colorado virus and its impactAbout In particular, Riyadh expects G20 leaders to adopt a joint work plan aimed at stabilizing the world economy and financial markets. Taking into account the general decline in production and commercial activity.
World cooperation
Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation, will be in touch with his colleagues from the G20 in Moscow. Earlier, head of State Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov revealed that during the video conference, the president would sit across the screen, where there would be a camera, He will see his colleagues on the screen. " Thursday's virtual summit will focus on the fight against the Colorado virus pandemic and its impact on the world economy, according to the Russian Federal presidential information service. The Kremlin representative did not specify whether the joint statement or declaration of the videoconference would be adopted.
Putin stressed that the Colorado virus epidemic has had a negative impact on the world's major economies and the world economy as a whole, thus affecting Russia. The Kremlin has previously pointed out that many countries have expressed their willingness to actively participate in international cooperation against the Colorado virus, including through assistance programmes and expert meetings. In terms of technical exchanges, treatment agreements, etc. " This is very positiveAbout This, of course, should be expanded and developed to benefit all who are now trying to protect themselves from the virus. "
Russia has provided direct assistance to fight the Colorado virus in 20 countries, including Italy. After a telephone call between the Russian President and Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte on March 21, Russian armed forces transferred Russian military virologists and Russian troops to the Apennine peninsula. Epidemiologist, professional equipment and technology. As Peskov pointed out, when deciding to provide assistance to the Italian Republic, Putin was first and foremost motivated by humanitarian considerations. " The representative of the Kremlin said that no country can fight the pandemic alone and must work together to help each other. " All countries are on the same boat and must meet this challenge together.
Nikolai Patrushev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Russian Federation, told reporters on Wednesday that Russia intends to continue to help stop propaganda for the countries most in need. In order to prevent further penetration of the infection into the territory of the Russian Federation. He believes that countries need to respond to the existing risks of new biological threats in a timely manner and strengthen national health and epidemic prevention systems. About
Leaders of the seven Party group
It is expected that US President Donald Trapp will participate in the G20 meeting in his capacity as chairman of the group of seven this year. U.S. Treasury Secretary Stephen mnuchin stressed in a conference call earlier this week between G20 finance ministers and central bank governors, We all recognize the need to work together to support the economy and coordinate global action.
In addition to G20 leaders, the heads of state invited to the videoconference, especially Spain and Singapore, as well as representatives of international organizations, especially international organizations, will attend the videoconference. world health organization.
Asian experience - Focus
Chinese President Xi Jinping will be one of the important participants in the summit. A few days ago, he visited the city of Wuhan in Central China, where it is believed that there was an initial explosion in colonavirus. By doing so, China's head of state marked a symbolic end to two months of intense fighting against the epidemic. At the same time, the country remains highly alert to a possible second wave of covid-19.
China also expressed its willingness to help other countries fight AIDAbout Such assistance may be provided to countries in Italy, Brazil, Belarus, Africa and Latin America, which carry goods with medical masks and other means of protection, Preservative. Chinese medical teams have flown to some countries.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has decided to postpone the Olympic Games to 2021, and he will attend the G20 leaders' meeting. At present, the coronal water situation in Japan is under monitoring: local authorities plan to resume school education from April 1. However, we continue to appeal to the public not to participate in mass activities. At the same time, Japanese experts do not rule out a second wave of the epidemic - the number of people infected in Tokyo has increased significantly in recent days.
President of the Republic of Korea Ming zhe pointed out before the G20 summit, This means that coronavirus is no longer just a public health problem, but a crisis in the public, financial and economic fields. 11. Mun Zhe in pointed out that measures must be taken to minimize damage to the world economy and ensure commercial activities. South Korea is now often used as a model for a country, As a result of serious and rapid action by local authorities, the spread of the Colorado virus was quickly stoppedAbout
Europe has become a new centre
European leaders are expected to be actively involved, the second Colorado virus transmission center after China. According to the Champs Elysees sources, the conference call will discuss issues such as vaccine development and new treatments. And assess the potential impact of the current crisis on major economies.
Steffen zaibert, an official spokesman for kabmin, told reporters, Germany looks forward to a coordinated response to the "spread of Colorado virus" at the G20 virtual summit. He did not provide specific details. According to Seibert, Given the clear global impact of the crisis, Chancellor Angela Merkel welcomes the organization of negotiations in the form of greater international coordination efforts. Page: 1
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's office has yet to confirm his participation in Thursday's G20 summit. However, in a telephone conversation earlier with the leaders of the other 20 countries, Johnson stressed the importance of international cooperation to combat the spread of the new Colorado virus. Especially at the G20 levelAbout The UK said it needed to exchange experience and scientific data and take measures to support the global economy, (a) Assist developing countries in disease control and provide additional funding for the development of new coronavirus vaccine programmes.
Italy did not formally comment on the upcoming summit. Local authorities, led by Prime Minister Giuseppe conte, have spared no effort to combat the spread of the country's coronavirus, which has infected more than 750000 people. China has more than twice the world's population.
Online world
The coronaveros pandemic has forced governments and major public organizations around the world to turn most of their key meetings into teleconferences. The G-7 foreign ministers held talks in this form for the first time on March 25, and US President Donald Trapp has promised, Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the G7 leaders' summit in June will also be held in virtual form.
This week, a conference call was held between finance ministers and central bank governors of the G20. At the end of the meeting, Christine Georgiev, President of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), stressed that in 2020, in the context of the Colorado virus pandemic, the world economy is expected to decline, May be worse than the recession of the world financial crisis in 200About According to Georgieva, in order to achieve economic recovery next year, priority must be given to containing and strengthening health systems in all countries. She believes that developing countries will face the greatest difficulty, because developed economies usually respond better to crises. "
A new outbreak of coronavirus has occurred in Central China. Later, it spread to more than 150 countries and was recognized by the World Health Organization. According to the latest data, more than 440000 people around the world are living with HIV. It is reported that more than 25 million people died of malaria in 2000. Page: 