The spread of the new Coronavirus in China is now also dampening the mood of consumers there. After an optimistic start to the new year, it has deteriorated somewhat.
In its monthly consumer climate index, the Nuremberg market researcher GfK predicts a decrease for March by 0.1 points to 9.8 meters. In the previous month the value had risen by 0.2 counter.
As a reason for the stagnant development, the company mentioned the uncertainty caused by the spread of the Coronavirus. Because of the strong interdependence of the economy, this could also affect companies in Germany, said GfK consumer experts Rolf Burkel on Thursday in Nuremberg.
"If the supply of pre-products or supplies from China is interrupted, this will have a negative effect on our employment. Threatening short-time work and job losses then depress consumer sentiment,"he said.
The Coronavirus may also have negative effects on German exports to China. "Growth forecasts are falling sharply in China. The purchasing power is also no longer present in this respect --this of course also applies to Germany as an export nation,"stressed Kirkel.
Despite the cyclical weaknesses caused by the trade dispute between the US and China and the Coronavirus, the signals from the German labour market are still encouraging, which stabilises the overall consumer mood, the expert said. In view of the stable employment situation, workers could expect income increases this year, even if they were not as high as last year. Even pensioners could hope for a considerable increase in their salaries.
Supported by the European Central Bank's low interest rate policy, the GfK also maintains a good level of purchasing poweYeah. With 53,6 points, this indicator is slightly above the reference value of the previous year. On the other hand, the consumer's tendency to save continues in the basement. "Saving is and remains not a very attractive alternative to consumption," said the church.
Private consumption, on the other hand, remains an important factor in the stability of the economy. According to the expert, the GfK maintains its forecast that private consumption will increase by a percentage this year. For the past year, the forecast was based on an increase of 1.5 percent. In the case of economic growth in Germany, the Nuremberg market researchers also expect an increase by 1,0 percent in the current year. 2019 economic performance in the Federal Republic increased by 0.6 per cent. (dpa