Iran's Deputy Minister for Health, Iraj Harirchi,
Sweat on the forehead. Again and again he took off his glasses and wiped himself
joint press conference with government spokesperson Ali Rabia with a handkerchief
through the face. A few hours later, the cabinet member announced
short selfie video, he was sick with the Coronavirus." This is a
democratic virus. It makes no distinction between rich and poor, between powerful and powerless. It could infect a lot of people,"he said with
Voice.
Just days before Harirchi had outraged allegations by Ahmad Farahani
rejected from Ghom, the Islamic Republic lied to the population and impoverished
the crisis. Shortly afterwards, critic Farahani met the same fate. With high
He had to go to the hospital. Leave his seat in the Tehran Parliament
thoroughly disinfect colleagues immediately. Iranian Vice-President Massumeh Ebtekar has also tested positive for the Coronavirus. According to the IRNA state news agency on Thursday, the 59-year-old is currently under medical supervision at home.
Officially in Iran so far 26 people are at the
Coronavirus died, the second highest number in the world after China. 245 People
are located on the intensive care station, a large part in the pilgrimage town of Ghom, whose
Central cemetery has recently been expanded by 2.000 graves for emergencies. International
Experts suspect Tehran has had the scale of the epidemic in its own country for weeks
and therefore plays a role in the spread of the Coronavirus in the Middle East
Key.
Nowhere does the number of deaths rise as rapidly as in the
Islamic Republic, nowhere is the mortality rate approximately ten percent
so high. In China it is at 3,5 percent, in Italy at 2,5 and in South Korea
under one percenYeah. On this basis, a Canadian research group calculated on Tuesday
in Toronto the number of infected Iranians since the outbreak of the disease before
six weeks on at least 18.500." It is likely that Iran will
The ad hoc report states that the corona epidemic has a significant dimension.
Tehran's leaders, on the other hand, are doing this as Western propaganda
The newly formed digital police arrested 24 bloggers, who they accuse of spreading rumors about the scale of the epidemic. 118 more
Internet activists were temporarily arrested and severely warned." The authorities
do not want to admit that they are struggling with a significant corona outbreak
"recently fled abroad health expert Kamiar Alaei explained
in an interview with the Center for Human Rights in Iran (CHRI). Other
due to the US sanctions throughout the country but also suitable virus tests are missing, so many
CoronaInfected may have been diagnosed as common flu cases. In order for foreign companies to deliver food, medicine and other necessary items to Iran, the US government has relaxed its sanctions on Thursday.
All neighbours of the Islamic Republic have now
Borders closed because they do not comply with Tehran's official declarations
Trust. In Iraq, all six infected people came from Iran, including Bahrain, and
Kuwait smuggled in the virus from Tehran. Kuwait reported so far 43 Corona cases,
Bahrain 33, United Arab Emirates 13 and Oman 4. In Iraq's capital
Baghdad stays until seven. All cafes, schools, universities and cinemas closed in March.
The religious authorities in Iran, on the other hand, strive to:
stop the pilgrimage to Maschad and Ghom and the two saints
To quarantine cities. For the spread of the disease contributes to
First and foremost the custom of Shiite pilgrims to
kiss and touch with your handYeah. Only the Friday prayers for this week
have been cancelled. The metro of Tehran and all public buses are regularly
disinfected. Football games are to continue, but without spectators. Revolutionary
Ali Khamenei left the distance at his last mass service in Tehran
his chair from the assembled far more than double.
Saudi Arabia and Iraq, on the other hand, are far more determined,
even if it means significant financial losses. Both nations shall:
no more pilgrims to the country. Saudi Arabia stopped for Mecca and
Medina all Umrah visas, as the small pilgrimage around the year is called.
The leaders in Riyadh are concerned that the Hague will also end
In July, two to five million participants must be cancelled, for the first time in the
History of the kingdom. Eleven million better visited 2019 the two saints
Places of Islam in the homeland of Prophet Muhammad. For Saudi Arabia
the pilgrimage business earns more than ten billion euros each year.
The two saints offered the same picture this week
Cities of Shiite Islam, Nadshef and Kerbela, where the lucrative pilgrimage
also came to a standstill. In Nadschaf are currently closed 300 of the 350 hotel,
The remaining 50's only up to five to ten percent, local media reports.
The situation in Kerbela is similar, where tens of thousands of
Better to stay in the monumental mosque of Imam Hussein, the grandson of
Prophet Mohammed. Religious tourism is at zero,"the leaders complain
on site. All revenue is zero.