Since 24 February, the Ministry of health has intensified its health and epidemiological surveillance of the Colorado virus, which distributes covid-19 in the European region and elsewhere in the world. Reported by the Department information service.
"Strengthen health quarantine and medical monitoring of personnel from Italy. The comprehensive plan for the prevention of acquisition and dissemination of covid-19 in Colorado was supplemented and additional measures for citizens were provided. People from isolated countries said. -Including security measures, In order to carry out laboratory research at Minsk National Airport, an additional health quarantine station was organized and materials were collected. "
The press release noted that the Minister of health, Vladimir kalanik, held a meeting today, attended by the Deputy Minister of sport and tourism. Officials made clear the timetable for the stay of foreign athletes in Belarus, discussed the movement of delegations in international competitions and formulated a plan "Supplementary activities" for athletes and delegation memberAbout
As of 24 February, a total of 568519 people had passed health checks on the border with Belarus, including 1137 in China in the previous 14 days. 27 people's symptoms of respiratory system diseases, the test results are negative.
A total of 82 people were found to have symptoms of acute respiratory infection, previously in China. All of these people were taken to an infectious disease hospital, where they received the necessary medical care and carried out laboratory studies. "(() ( In one case - mixed infection)（ In 68 cases, the results were negative, the information service of the Ministry of health noted.
At present, 542 people in the country are under medical supervision. The medical examination of 712 people has been completed.
325 Chinese students arrived in Belarus. 141 of them are currently under medical supervision at Sok brigantina and Zagoria medical rehabilitation center in Minsk state. Medical supervision of 184 students has endedAbout
As of February 24, a total of 196 Chinese workers had arrived at the Belarus national biotechnology company and 69 at the big stone Industrial Park. They are temporarily isolated in separate facilities and subject to medical supervision. "These people have no symptoms of infectious diseases," the office stressed