Millions of people have to look after Kita and school children after this weekend. Concerned about the further spread of the Coronavirus, most states close schools and kitas.
Germany's neighbouring countries, the Czech Republic, Poland and Denmark, almost completely or completely closed their borders to all foreigners due to the Coronavirus threat. The Bundesliga stopped playing. The Federal Government granted large grants to companies.
According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), Europe is now the world's most severely affected region by the Coronavirus pandemic. In Europe, more infections and deaths would be reported than in all other countries outside China combined, said WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. "Europe has now become the epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic," he said. "More cases are reported every day than at the height of the epidemic in China."
Until Friday afternoon, 14 federal states announced comprehensive school closures: North Rhine-Westphalia, Baden-Wurttemberg, Bavaria, Rhineland-Palatinate, Hesse, Saarland, Berlin, Brandenburg, Thuringia, Saxony-Anhalt, Lower Saxony, Schleswig-Holstein, Hamburg and Bremen.
Most countries want to keep schools and kitas closed until the end of the Easter holidays, i.e. until the middle or end of April. Saxony wants to suspend school duties first on Monday, giving teachers, pupils and parents time to prepare for school closures. The government wants to set the exact time next week. In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, the cabinet wanted to decide on Saturday whether there was a need for comprehensive closures.
The president of the World Medical Association, Frank Ulrich Montgomery, says nothing about school closures across the boardYeah. In the rbb "Inforadio" he said on Friday: "Area-wide school closures make no sense to me at all, because the follow-up problems with family, hospitals and everyone else are simply much greater." School closures in regions with particularly many infections would, however, make sense.
Several federal states have banned or limited visits to old-age homes. These include Bavaria, Baden-Wurttemberg, NRW and Hessen. However, individual homes also have their own regulations. People returning from risk areas are prohibited from visiting four places.
US President Donald Trump called a national emergency because of the spread of the Coronavirus in the US. The measure would release more federal funds up to fifty billion dollars to fight the Coronavirus, Trump said. According to the national health authority CDC, more than 1600 infections and more than 40 deaths have been recorded in the USA.
The Central Council of Muslims (ZMD) appealed to the mosque communities in Germany to suspend Friday prayers due to the Coronavirus. The Federal Military began a first aid for civil health and supports a fever outbreak in Koblenz.
In Germany, in addition to eight deaths, more than 3200 infections with the new Coronavirus are known so far. This results from an evaluation of the German Press Agency, which takes into account the reported figures of the Federal States. The deaths in Germany were between 67 to 89 years old. Moreover, a 60-year-old German died in Egypt.
The Austrian government closed many businesses for the first week in the fight against the Coronavirus and also quarantined areas in Tyrol. Foreign guests are still allowed to leave, said Interior Minister Karl Nehammer. In Paris, the Louvre closed its doors.
The Federal Government wants to help companies with unlimited credit programmeYeah. A drastically increased guarantee framework at the state bank KfW could provide half a billion euros, said Economy Minister Peter Altmaier (CDU). The government initially provided the car with 20 billion euros. Finance Minister Olaf Scholz (SPD) said: "There is no limit to the amount of credit that the car can give."
The announcement of substantial state aid in the fight against the consequences of the Coronavirus crisis supported the German stock market on Friday. The Dax first rose close to the brand of 10.000 points.
The European Union economy will shrink this year, according to the Commission's assessment, due to the Coronavirus crisis. Initially, growth was expected to be 1,4 per cent for 2020; now growth will "fall below zero, possibly even significantly," said a senior Commission official in Brussels.
In the Corona crisis, many workers in Germany are to be protected from unemployment by public-funded short-time work. The Bundestag unanimously decided on Friday in an unprecedented fast-track procedure a draft law on the facilitation of short-time work. After the adoption in the Bundestag, he also passed the Bundesrat on Friday.
The Federal Football League stopped the game and will not play this weekend. "The reason is, among other things, that during the course of the day the suspicion of an infection with the Coronavirus has arisen in the surroundings of several clubs and their teams and further infections cannot be ruled out," the DFL wrote. The European Football Union also suspended its activities in the Champions League and the Europa League. (dpa