Following warnings from the CDC about the spread of the new Coronavirus in the United States, President Donald Trump warned of a panic. The risk for Americans remained "very low", Trump said at a press conference on Wednesday evening. He does not think that an expansion in the US is inevitable. America is armed and ready to adapt, "and we are ready to do everything we need to do when the disease spreads, if it spreads," said Trump. Vice President Mike Pence will be responsible for the US response to the Coronavirus outbreak.
Health Minister Alex Azar said that so far there have been 15 cases in the US where the agent Sars-CoV-2 has been proven. In addition, 45 cases of Americans having been flown out of China or Japan would be added. Our containment strategy has worked."Trump said most of the 15-year-olds diagnosed in the US are on their way to recovery.
The CDC reported that among the 15th cases diagnosed in the United States, an infected person in California who, according to previous findings, had neither traveled to an infected area nor had contact with another infected person. This would be a novelty in the US. CDC Vice-Director Anne Schuchat said at the press conference that more cases are expected." The development of what we will see in the coming weeks and months is very uncertain."The director of the National Institute for Infectious Diseases, Anthony Fauci, said that until a vaccine can be used against the virus, one to one and a half years could pass.
The head of the CDC Department of Immunisation and Respiratory Diseases, Nancy Messonnier, said on Tuesday that it was less a question of whether the virus would spread in the US, but rather of when it would happenYeah.
Other travel restrictions did not exclude Trump because of the virus. At the moment, foreigners who have been to China in the last fortnight must not enter the United States. Trump said such restrictions could also be imposed on travellers from other countries where the virus is spreading. It is hoped, however, that restrictions on China will be lifted as soon as possible, the President said. China has been most affected by the epidemic so far.
Trump's government had asked Congress to grant two,5 billion dollars to fight the new Coronavirus. The minority leader of the Democrats in the Senate, Chuck Schumer, called it "too little and too late". He proposed a budget of 8,5 billion dollars to fight the virus. Trump was open to the push. They're going to spend whatever's appropriate