Tass, March 16. Molecular biologists in China have found that a new coronavirus that causes the covid-19 pandemic can not only enter human cells through ACE2 receptors, But in other ways - by protein separation of CD147 molecules. The results of the scientists' experiments are published in the biorxiv Electronic Science Library.
"We all know that the virus enters the human body with ACE2 receptor. However, because it often appears in heart cells, kidney cells and sexual organs, The fight against the virus through this protein may have a negative impact on these organs. We have isolated receptors that are attacked by another virus molecule, which will expand the library of possible means to contain infection.
Sars-cov-2 virus causes pneumonia in China and other countries, and penetrates human body and other mammalian cells through ACE2 protein molecules, Covering lung cells. Scientists have long found that these larvae play an important role in the life activities of SARS, another dangerous virus, the pathogen of SARS.
Chinese scientists from Xi'an fourth Medical University (Xi'an) and Biotechnology Research Institute (Beijing) found that in order to enter human tissues and cells, covid-19 pathogen is a very likely hallucinogenic agent. Use at least another waAbout This is a CD147 protein receptor.
Scientists discovered the discovery, noting that the SARS virus uses these molecules when it enters human cells and other mammals. In addition, experts have found that these molecules play an important role in controlling other viral infections and malaria. In this spirit, Chinese experts used to inhibit CD147 activity and tried to use sars-cov-2 coronavirus to infect alveolar antibody culture.
It turns out that even relatively small concentrations of synthetic antibodies completely prevent the spread of the virus. Later, scientists observed the contaminated cells through an electron microscope, which confirmed that the virus's shell could fuse with CD147. These results show that scientists believe that the drugs developed to protect human beings from malaria and SARS can help prevent and control the sars-cov-2 epidemic.
Russian federation
There are now more than 169000 registered worldwide. It is estimated that in 2001, there were about 6500 new cases of coronavirus infection. Dead, more than 77000 recovered Human beings. Diseases found outside China are in 148 countries, including Russia.
At the end of December, a new outbreak of coronavirus (covid-19) broke out in Wuhan, ChinaAbout The World Health Organization recognizes the spread of the disease around the world and calls covid-19 a pandemic.
The new type of coronavirus belongs to the same kind of virus as SARS and mers, i.e. SARS and the Middle East mycoplasma. In the past decade, these two viruses have claimed hundreds of lives in the Middle East and East Asia and have repeatedly caused epidemics, Spread through camels and poultry. According to scientists, bats are the original vectors of the 2019 ncov virus, and there is also evidence that this may be guilty.
