The word "cool" keeps slipping out of 17-year-old pupil Avi Schiffmann. Actually, he was just trying to build a cool website, says Seattle teenager in the U.S. state of Washington.
"Clear, easily understandable and with up-to-date data on the Coronavirus spread", explains the gymnast. With his page "ncov2019.live", the student closed an information gap early and attracted millions of users long before authorities or scientific institutes provided global figures on the pandemic.
By the end of December, Schiffmann posted his Coronavirus website online when China had just reported the first cases of the disease and no one had yet moved to Washington. "It began after Christmas as a small project. Of course, I had no idea how big the virus and my website would become,"the student says.
"There have been around twenty million visitors alone in the last 24-hour period," he says proudly. With the spread of the virus, there was also an exponential increase in use, 144 million in the last month. The comments on the page are full of praise: "Great work", "Keep it up", "better than other sources of information", writes users.
The homepage presents the most important facts about the worldwide Coronavirus crisis. Quick Facts provides information on the global numbers: cases of illness, deaths, the severely ill and cures. The figures are updated every minute. In other sections the data of continents, individual countries and US states follow. There are interactive maps and a wiki area with important information about Covid-19.
Even as a child, the 17-year-old says he has learned to program. "I've learned everything from YouTube videos about how to make a cool website to help people." But this is not a child's game, admitYeah.
First, he tapped into Chinese government sites for his website to access information. He added sources from other countries, including news sites, the US Health Authority CDC and the World Health Organisation (WHO). The junior programmer developed a Scraping software that constantly collects data and constantly updates its website.
He spends every free minute on the computer, says Schiffmann, unless he's doing interviews. He has plenty of time, because even in the US state of Washington, because of the Corona crisis, schools and most businesses have been closed for a long time. People should largely stay in their homes. His other hobby was skiing, the wearer says, but also the ski areas should have closed all.
The student with the dark head has a younger sister, his mother is a doctor, the father a medical journalist. But his motive was not the medical phenomenon of the spread of the virus, but his interest in figures and facts. "In the age of Fake News, it is important to find good sources and reliable figures," says Schiffmann.
Fake news about the Coronavirus seems to be spreading as fast as the pathogen itself. But who's behind it? The intention is not always clear to the Fake News researcher and communications scientist Tilman Klawier from Hohenheim University. In his view, if lies have often been spread in the past in order to make money by clicking or to bring one's own ideology among people, the motivation in the case of the Coronavirus is not necessarily recognizable. "Perhaps it is an individual need for validity, boredom or simply a disturbed invention."
Ave Schiffmann has been working for a long time to integrate more complex links into the website. In addition to the absolute number of infections such as the increase in cases from week to weeYeah. Or a vaccine tracker with research results. Or statistics on the number of tests in different regions. It's the only way the ideas come out of him.
Avi is also quick to criticize other websites. The CDC website of the Washington authorities was much too slow and always lagging behind with the figures, the student says. He also makes the much-used Corona Info page of the U.S. University of Johns Hopkins "completely unusable" on mobile devices.
Every day, the teenage boy goes through the head with the coronavirus numbers. "Things will get much worse in the US if there are finally more tests," says Schiffmann. In Germany, the lower death rate among Corona infected would stand out. And one more thing to be noticed: "Most visitors from Europe on my website come from Germany, already more than eight million users." This puts Germany in third place, after the USA and Taiwan.
An end to the Corona crisis is not yet in sight. But Schiffmann is already thinking ahead, for example about a new website name "GermTracker.com". "Once this is over, I will come up with 20 new projects," says the student. "I want to start my own company and do cool things to help the world.