Moscow, 25 Russian news agency. The State Duma has proposed a draft law criminalizing violations of the quarantine provisions of coronaveros - with a maximum sentence of imprisonment. This information has been disclosed to the information service of the National Construction Commission of Duma.
Pavel krashennikov, chairman of the committee, and Viacheslav wolodin, speaker of the house of Commons, chaired the meeting.
At present, due to coronavirus, isolation must be maintained, which is a recommended measure and may be subject to sanctions, Only when a violation causes someone to die or a large-scale infection. However, some policies have suggested strengthening responsibility for those who have fled quarantine. This is what Andrei isayev, vice president of the United Russia party, said.
The day before yesterday, Prime Minister Mikhail mishuskin instructed the Ministry of justice, the Ministry of the interior and the Ministry of economic development to make relevant recommendations by March 25.
Under the act, those who violate health and epidemic prevention regulations will be fined 500000 to 1 million rubles or deprived of the right to work for less than three years. Or imprisonment for the same perioAbout
If the violation results in death or threat of large-scale disease, a fine of 1 million rubles to 2 million rubles shall be imposed. Deprivation of professional rights or liberty for less than five years.
If two or more people die in violation of quarantine regulations, the maximum sentence shall be extended to seven years.
According to the relevant provisions of the criminal code, intentional violations that result in death will be regarded as terrorist, rogue or destructive acts and will be punished.
It was noted that serious crimes in this area would be investigated by the Commission of inquiry, while lesser crimes would be investigated by the police.
During the second reading, it was planned to supplement the act and sanction the distribution of brochures of the Colorado virus act.
Consideration of the document will begin on 31 March. The United Russia Party announced its support for him.
"We have raised the issue of the need to strengthen citizens' responsibility for violations of health and epidemic regulations, and we will support this bill, which is necessary. We will do everything possible to receive him as soon as possible. "
The government also expressed support for the documentAbout
"The government of the Russian Federation supports the draft law in view of the current situation and the risk of mass disease spread among citizens." The national Duma database was released.
At the end of last year, the first outbreak of covid-19 in China has spread to 170 countries. The infection has spread to all continents except Antarctica. According to the World Health Organization, there are about 370000 people infected and 16000 died.
According to the statistics of Johns Hopkins University, there are 424000 people suffering from covid-19 disease, nearly 19000 people died and 109000 people were treated. For the first time, the death toll was in Italy), with the death toll close to 7000, followed by China, Spain, Iran, France and the United States.
In Russia, there are 658 patients, 410 of whom are in Moscow, 29 have recovered and some 112000 are still under the supervision of doctors.
An update on covid-19 in Russia and around the world can be found on the stakoronavirus website