Tokyo, 21 - Russia News Agency, xenia Naka. Kodama Takashi, expert in economic process research, Japan Deva Institute He introduced his personal views on the economic development prospect of the new coronavirus covid-19 infection to Russia News Agency. Kodama Takashi is one of the first countries in Japan to use the term "corona shock" in an economy adversely affected by the spread of the virus.
In China, this has become a center of pollution, peaking around February 10. But it has taken very strict quarantine measures, so the infection rate has dropped relatively fast.
"If these measures taken by other countries are successful at present, they may not be as fast as China, but it is hoped that the growth of diseases will decline." On February 16, in addition to China, there were more than 100 new cases in the world. If the peak is calculated like China's, it will happen in the world by the end of March. I don't think it's going to happen very soon, but in the optimistic scenario, it's likely to peak in mid April and then start to decline. About
If the situation is not under control for six months or more, it will be even worse. Tourism, public catering, entertainment and other services will and have been hit for the first time. Demand for cars and other non expendable goods is likely to decline sharply. Demand for health goods will increase, but under favourable conditions it will be a very small sector.
However, he believes that once there is an improvement on the front line in the fight against the Colorado virus, the situation may change.
"The volatility experienced by the stock market and foreign exchange market is too fast, but this does not mean that this negative situation will last for a long time. Once there are signs that the Colorado virus is spreading less, the market will calm down relatively quickly. This will avert the economic crisis of 2008. The most important thing is the time it takes to defeat the virus, "Kodama gossi believes.
In his view, at present, national efforts should not focus on measures to maintain the economy, because the extent of the damage is not clear, How to defeat the virus quickly is the basic condition of economic recovery.
An update on covid-19 in Russia and around the world can be found on the stakoronavirus website