The consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic in China will increasingly affect German industry and trade in the coming weeks.
As many Chinese factories have been shut down for weeks and are currently operating only in limited quantities, there are no pre-products, parts or complete products processed or sold in China. The electronics sector is affected, among other things. Not only imports but also deliveries to China have been destroyed.
In fact, EU trade ministers wanted to discuss the issue on Thursday, but the meeting is cancelled. The average transport time from China to Europe by sea is six weeks, over land by freight train on the New Silk Road is about three weeks. Therefore, the effects of the Chinese coronation standstill are now being felt with delay on production and trade in Europe.
With imports of 52 billion euros, China is "by far the largest foreign supplier for the German electrical market", says Andreas Gontermann, the chief national value of the Central Association of Electrical Engineering and Electronics Industries (ZVEI). "The delivery difficulties do not affect the industry across the board," he says. "However, several companies report disruptions in the supply and production chains."
Gontermann figures the volume of intermediate products delivered from China to Germany at a value of ten billion euro a year. "How much of it is at risk of delivery is difficult to estimate," says Gontermann. And that is not yet done: "In addition, inputs from other countries can also contain Chinese inputs," he explains. The Japanese and South Korean economies are also currently being held back, and both countries are very important for the electronics industry.
Consumers, too, are likely to feel the effects on the electricity marketsYeah. "Currently, no supply bottlenecks can be identified due to the restrictions of the Coronavirus, we are currently expecting for April the first possible supply bottlenecks and rising product resistance prices," says Alexander Maier, Senior Vice President at Ingram Micro, a wholesaler for electrical and electronic products based in the Munich suburb of Aschheim. "We are currently working on strategies to respond quickly to these impacts and continue to offer our customers the best possible product availability."
The car industry is also concerned." Production is currently in progress at all locations,"says an audio speaker in Ingolstadt. Of course, it is not clear how the situation will develop in the medium term, particularly with regard to the supply chain. We try to alleviate potential bottlenecks through targeted measures."
Audi is based in Bavaria, where companies are particularly dependent on foreign countries and earn more than half of their sales outside German borders. "Supply chains between China and Bavaria are interrupted and will be even more severely interrupted in the coming weeks, for example, if pre-crisis products are processed and no further follow-up is achieved," says Bertram Brossardt, the chief manager of the Bavarian Economic Association (vbw).
The main import goods from China for the Bavarian economy are data processing equipment, electronic and optical products, electrical equipment and machines. "We expect a disruption of the supply chains approximately proportional to the volume of the individual product groups," says Brossardt. This should apply similarly to companies in the rest of the Republic supplied from China.
For outsiders, the impact on the supply of medicines cannot be estimated. According to the Federal Institute for Medicinal Products and Medical Products in Bonn, there are currently no Coronavirus-related bottleneckYeah. But last week, India, where many imitation medicines are produced for the world market, limited exports of 26 common active substances, including paracetamol and several antibiotics.
A major drug wholesaler is Phoenix Pharmahandel, based in Mannheim, and the company is walled: "We cannot evaluate the issue of your request," a spokesman says. The Pharmaceutical Association Progenerika states that it is not assumed that there will be supply shortages in Germany until the summer 2020 due to Corona. What then? "Not yet foreseen" (dpa