Moscow, March 19. /tass/ The Internet initiative development fund sent a letter to Mikhail mishuskin, Prime Minister of the government of the Russian Federation, requesting the adoption of a bill to expand the power of doctors, This will allow them to diagnose patients remotely and provide treatment. This is in a letter on behalf of the Kirill Varlamov foundation, which tasis owns.
At present, with the global epidemic situation and the rapid spread of covid-19 virus in Russia, it is particularly urgent to develop telemedicine in Russia. " -Take note of the text in the letter. It also said, The Russian news agency stated that the law on amending certain legislation of the Russian Federation on the application of information technology in the field of health, which came into force on January 1, 2018, laid a foundation for the application of information technology in the field of health 2. Using telemedicine to provide medical assistance remotely. However, Varlamov pointed out that the method does not specify the possibility of diagnosis or the possibility of treatment for the diagnosis results. This greatly reduces the application of telemedicine technologyAbout
"In this regard, it is clear that there is a need for the speedy adoption of a bill to expand the power of doctors in remote assistance, That is, the possibility of remote diagnosis and treatment. " This will reduce the number of people entering treatment facilities and help to care for more patients.
As the director of the Department of legal initiatives, Freya Alexandra olehovic, pointed out, at present, Russian law does not allow doctors to diagnose and treat remotely, That is to say, doctors can only do so legally after an individual has been treated. " In the case of limited mobility, access to qualified medical assistance should not be denied. This is also particularly important for older people who are particularly at risk. This interim measure should be able to quickly detect potentially dangerous conditions in the early stages of the disease, including coronavirus, And prevent people from congregating in medical institutions "- quote his words from the foundation press office.
The French agency for international development cooperation stands ready to provide expert and organizational support for the drafting of the bill.
Doctor's opinion
This is an important decision in the current epidemic situation, especially in this case, When patients only need to ask question。 There is a group of people who run on every little thing and ask for expert advice, but in principle they don't need to. Therefore, in some cases, especially in the case of therapeutic diseases, adequate online tutoring, including video tutoring, can be provided -Share with TASS, associate doctor of medicine, associate professor, surgeon oncologist Sergei osminin
According to him, this not only helps to reduce virus infection, including the spread of coronavirus, but also helps to filter patients in the outpatient department, They really need expert personal advice. " I think it's even necessary in this case, because we can assess the patient's condition by phone. Through telemedicine, we can see the vision of a patient, and he can tell us what is bothering him. According to the protocol, we can specify symptom treatment "- add immunocorrection to the general manager of tacis medical center. Hotanova, doctor - physician Lyudmila rapa.
However, doctors point out that the main problem in this area is to take this consultation seriously. " Not every doctor can take on such a responsibility, which actually seems easy. It needs knowledge and experience. The main task is not to hurt, "she explained.
"When the doctor is responsible, he should recommend hospitalization in any dangerous situation, or should still go to see the doctor.About In my opinion, about 50% of requests can be reduced in this way, "osmium concluded.
Coronavirus pandemic
A new outbreak of coronavirus has occurred in Central China. Later, it spread to more than 140 countries and was recognized by the World Health Organization. According to the latest data, more than 210000 people around the world are infected with AIDS. Nearly 85 million people are reported dead in China. Page: 1 199 cases have been registered in Russia. In order to inform Russia of the situation, the government has launched stogroneviros resources of the Russian Federation