Kazan, March 14. /tass/ Experts from Federal University of Kazan) began to develop covid-19 vaccine against coronavirus infection, which is what Professor Albert ritzwanov of tasshe said.
"We have now launched a project to develop a Colorado virus vaccine for China. Currently, only experts from financial institutions are involved, "he said.
The first phase will include laboratory research. According to rizvanov, scientists from China's financial intelligence unit could not cooperate with live viruses, so experts developed vaccines based on published data on the genetic structure of the virus.
When we find that the genetic vaccine of the virus works in laboratory animals and causes immunity to the coronavirus, we will contact the national institutions, Who has the right to deal with a live virus and conduct clinical trials there. This requires a high level of specialized biosafety laboratories. In this regard, the participation of States is definitely needed. "
As rizvanov made clear, the genomes of coronaveros are well known and published. The scientists extracted genes for immune function in response to coronavirus infection and synthesized these genesAbout Now, in order to create a vaccine, scientists don't need a living virus, only according to the genetic code information to synthesize RNA virus.
"Without the virus, we can get a piece of his gene. These fragments are responsible for specific viral protein synthesis. This is the basis of a genetic drug containing a variety of coronavirus genes. If this genetic drug is introduced into the human body or animal body, it will lead to such results. The body itself will start to synthesize some coronavirus proteins, and the immune system of these proteins will know that they are heterogeneous. [results] the immune response to coronavirus will be formed. In this case, we do not introduce live or weakened coronavirus, we only input genetic information, and biological use for the synthesis of virus protein in vivo. So, the drug is completely safe, "rizvanov said, specifically, the tests will be carried out on animals.
According to scientists, people suffer from acute respiratory infection every year, of which 10-30% are caused by coronavirus, which often occurs in the populationAbout If we make an analogy, experts say that the common coronavirus is the common influenza virus, while the Chinese coronavirus is the bird flu or the swine flu, which is unusual, It's rare, it's more difficult.
"Common coronaviruses cause only mild and moderate respiratory or intestinal diseases, Here - there are already quite a high mortality rate of respiratory infections in serious diseases. "
Russian federation
There are now more than 169000 registered worldwide. It is estimated that in 2001, there were about 6500 new cases of coronavirus infection. Dead, more than 77000 recovered Human beings. Diseases found outside China are in 148 countries, including Russia.
At the end of December, a new coronavirus (covid-19) broke out in Wuhan, China. The World Health Organization recognizes the spread of the disease around the world and calls covid-19 a pandemic.
The new type of coronavirus belongs to the same kind of virus as SARS and mers, i.e. SARS and the Middle East mycoplasma. In the past decade, these two viruses have claimed hundreds of lives in the Middle East and East Asia and have repeatedly caused epidemics, Camels and poultrAbout According to scientists, bats are the original vectors of the 2019 ncov virus, and there is also evidence that this may be guilty.
