South Korea's President, Moon Jae In, has described the rapid rise of people affected by the new Coronavirus as a "serious situation". At a meeting with Prime Minister Chung Sye Kyun, he called for "swift and strong" countermeasures, Moon's office said. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported new diseases during Friday 100. After 52 cases overnight were added up to the afternoon (local time) 48. This increased the number of people affected by the Coronavirus in South Korea to 204. It is the largest known outbreak outside China to date.
"One month after the outbreak, we enter the emergency phase," said Prime Minister Chung in a televised announcement from the central government. This will focus on the southeast region to alleviate bottlenecks in sick beds, medical personnel and equipment." Our efforts so far have focused on stopping the disease from coming into the country. But we will now move on to focusing on the fact that the disease does not continue to spread in local communities."
On Thursday, the authorities reported the first death in South Korea in connection with the Sars-CoV-2 virus. According to reports from South Korean stations, he was a 63-year-old man who was treated for pneumonia in a hospital in southeastern Cheongdo. In his case, the virus was detected after death.
At the end of 2019, China reported to the World Health Organisation, WHO, the incidence of pneumonia of unclear cause from Wuhan. A week later, researchers identified a novel virus as the cause: they called it 2019-nCov. It belongs to the group of Coronavires. It is now known as Sars-CoV-2 (CoV stands for Coronavirus, Sars for respiratory disease caused by a similar pathogenYeah.
Sars-CoV-2 may have spread from a food market in Wuhan. It also sold exotic animals such as reptiles. The lung disease that the new virus can cause is now called Covid-19 (English for Coronavirus disease; Coronavirus disease). The disease is called zoonosis, a disease caused by an animal pathogen. Parts of the viral effluent of Sars-CoV-2 are the same pathogens that infect bats. The new virus may have been transmitted to humans via an unknown intermediary.
Both the respiratory diseases Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and Mers (Middle East respiratory syndrome) are caused by coronary viruses that originate in animals. During the Sars pandemic, in the years 2002 and 2003, about 8.000 people died, more than 750. The Mers virus has infected people from its discovery 2012 to the end of 2019 about 2.500, and every third party has died from it.
Overall, there are several hundred types of coronavirus. Many of them affect the airways and can cause colds.
Medical practitioners assume that the virus is transmitted from person to person mainly by drip infection.
The WHO recommends general hygiene rules: wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people with respiratory diseases and wild animals.
More than 200.000 cases of Corona worldwide (stand 18. In addition, there is a high dark number, which researchers suspect roughly somewhere between 50 and 80 percent of all cases. Several thousand people have died as a result of this worldwide. In most cases, however, the infection is very mild. Among the victims of death are, in particular, people with serious illnesses and elderly people.
Follow the progress of registered cases in Germany on this maYeah.
The number of infected worldwide tested positive for Corona shows this map from Johns Hopkins University.
There's no way to say for sure yet. The WHO shared on 28th. In January, approximately one fifth of those reported as infected become seriously ill by the virus, so in case of doubt intensive medical treatment is required. Meanwhile, the WHO is treating the disease as a pandemic. Various states have imposed entry and exit restrictions to slow down the spread.
Typical signs of infection are fever, cough and difficulty breathing. Countries around the world have reported cases of infection, including Germany. Researchers are currently working on therapies and vaccinations. Initial clinical studies with vaccines have begun, i. e. few patients are given a test vaccination.
The majority of new infections were again detected in the southeastern millionaire city of Daegu. The government has now declared Daegu and Cheongdo special control zones. Among other things, military medical personnel are to be deployed there. The mayor of Daegu urged the population of the 2,5-million-inhabitant city to stay at home and, if possible, to wear masks inside.
In Daegu, most of the cases were associated with members of a Christian sect who were probably infected during the visit of divine services to an infected person. The Shincheonji Church announced that it had closed all its 74 churches in the country and asked believers to follow the divine services online.
Large demonstrations were banned in downtown Seoul and a large park was closed to prevent public mass gatherings. Workers also sprayed disinfectants in protective clothing on the subway