On Friday, more Germans returned from the province of Hubei, particularly affected by the Coronavirus Sars-CoV-2.
"All is well," said Stefan Brockmann of the Baden-Wurttemberg National Health Agency after the landing of the 15 passengers in Stuttgart. According to the German Red Cross (DRC), there are four families among the returnees. Overall, therefore, there are ten adults and five children. The youngest is not yet a year old, the oldest five. Returners are to be quarantined in a hotel in Kirchheim/Teck for a 14-day period.
Meanwhile, the number of infections recorded in South Korea and Iran increased sharply. Italy also reported an outbreak in Lombardy. A 38-year-old was in serious condition on Friday at the ICU of the small town hospital Codogno, authorities reported. Overall, 14 people have tested positive for Sars-CoV-2, including the pregnant wife of the seriously ill. For at least 250 people, a quarantine was required to prevent further infections.
Thousands of people in Codogno and two other places, Castiglione d'Adda and Casalpusterlengo, have been invited to stay home as much as possible. The mayor of Codogno, where around 16000 people live, ordered the closure of schools, bars and other public institutions.
After the return to Stuttgart, German passengers from the cruise ship Diamond Princess were scheduled to land in Berlin on Saturday. The ship had been quarantined for two weeks in Japanese Yokohama, with more than 600 of the passengers and crew members around 3700 Sars-CoV-2 having been detected. Those affected are cared for in hospitals, including a couple from Hesse.
Overall, ten Germans were on board the Diamond Princess. A couple wanted to stay in Tokyo for a few more dayYeah. The remaining six passengers from Germany, including two Berliners, were scheduled to land in the military part of Tegel Airport on Saturday. Everyone should remain under house quarantine for two weeks. When the infected couple could return from Hesse was initially unclear.
On the cruise ship "Westerdam" in Cambodia, however, there was a revelation: the tests for the virus on the 747 crew of the ship remained negative, as reported by the Holland America Line. Except for an American on her way home, the virus had not been detected on any of the passengers. The ship had also landed 57 Germans in Cambodia after several days of error. Most of them should be home by now.
The Robert Koch Institute now sees a lower risk of infection among the returned Westerdam passengers. They would now be classified as Category II contacts, a speaker said. Although it is recommended to reduce contacts with other people, daily body temperature measurements, diaries and daily calls from the health department are no longer provided for.
After days of supposed rest, worrying figures are reported from two countries. In Iran, where not a single case was covered until Tuesday, four people have died of Covid-19. There was evidence in thirteen other patients that two of them had died, Ministry spokesman Kianusch Jahnpur tweeted on Friday. Of the now 15 infected with the virus, four come from the capital Tehran, 7 from the city of Ghom and 4 from the Gilan province on the Caspian Sea in Northern Iran. How widespread the virus is actually already in the country can hardly be estimated at the moment.
Two first deaths, the first Sars-CoV-2 cases in Iran at all, had been reported Wednesday from GhoYeah. All schools and universities there were temporarily closed, the Ministry of Health sent expert teams to the religious city 140 kilometers south of the capital Tehran.
In South Korea, the number of infections recorded doubled to 204. It is the largest known outbreak to date outside China, where Covid-19 lung disease first broke out. In view of the rapid rise, President Moon Jae In spoke of a "serious situation". He announced "rapid and strong" countermeasures. A large proportion of the infected in South Korea are associated with a Christian sect in the Southeast Million City of Daegu.
According to the new cases, only 85 infected were found in members of the Shincheonji Church of Jesus. Authorities suspect the outbreak originated from a 61-year-old sect supporter. She refused to be tested for the virus and continued to participate in divine services in Daegu, despite symptoms of the disease.
The head of the World Health Organisation (WHO) was alarmed by the increasing number of infections outside China. "The window to control this outbreak is getting smaller," warned Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. He still has hope. "But if we miss the chance now, we have a serious problem," he said. "We must not look back one day and regret not having made use of this window of time."
Also in the country of origin China, the pathogen continues to spread. In mainland China, more than 75.000 infections and more than 2200 deaths are now recorded. Experts, however, expect a much higher dark figure. It was announced on Friday that in prisons of at least three provinces of China more than 450 inmates and also some supervisors are infecteYeah. In the narrow, crowded institutions with poor medical care, the virus could easily spread, the Global Times quoted an official. (dpa