At the moment, the machines are not standing still with the world's leading manufacturer of Dupont protective suits. "Since the official outbreak of the Coronavirus, there has been a strong increase in demand," said Product Manager Albrecht Gerland at the factory in the Luxembourg Contern of the German Press Agency.
At first, significantly more goods had been delivered to China, where the virus had broken out. With the increasing spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, Europe is now increasingly at the forefront.
Contern produces the material for the protective suits. The fibrous material made of plastic is called Tyvek and is very thin and light, extremely tear-resistant and breathable. On huge rolls the fabric goes to nine seams especially in Asia, where the coats are then made. The American specialist chemical company Dupont usually produces 200 million protective suits a year. This year, because of the extreme demand, Germany said, it would be much more.
The disposable protective suits were mainly made by dealers to people dealing with the infected and patients: doctors, nurses and nurses. In addition, the need for authorities, policemen and customs officers who controlled people is growing. Dupont has two plants worldwide that produce the fabric for protective clothing: one in Richmond in the USA, the other in Contern in Luxembourg.
With the raging Coronavirus, other companies also report a rush on their products: for example, manufacturers of disinfectants or respiratory masks. However, most companies suffer from the consequences of the new virus: every second company in Germany expects a decline in sales after a survey of the German Chamber of Industry and Commerce (DIHK) day.
In the Dupont factory in Luxembourg, the company runs around the clock, the employees work overtime. "The Coronavirus means an enormous amount of work and energy for our work," said plant manager Paul MeyerYeah. However, around 1200 employees were "highly motivated" to help the affected people on the ground. Contern is currently developing a new product line for 340 million euro.
According to a spokesman from Dupont Germany, the demand for protective clothing is currently higher than what the company can provide. But "the best" is done. "We have changed the distribution channels to get the production volume into the crisis areas." It also means that other Tyvek products, such as envelopes or medical packaging material, would currently be produced less.
In addition to seven sewers in Asia, there is also one in Mexico and one in Romania for Europe, Germany said. The European market is also served by protective suits manufactured mainly in Vietnam. With the outbreak of Covid-19 in China, as much as before had been delivered to China within a week 30-fold. "Now it balances out because there are cases everywhere.