After the outbreak of a Coronavirus epidemic in Italy, more and more European states are reporting evidence of the pathogen. Austria, Croatia, mainland Spain and Switzerland reported cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday.
A couple of sick people were admitted to the University Hospital in Dusseldorf under suspicion of coronary disease. According to information from the Dusseldorf "Rheinische Post", at least one person of the couple has tested positive for the agent Sars-CoV-2. The two spouses were driven to the Dusseldorf Clinic by a fire brigade ambulance. The transport was carried out under a special protection against infection. This is the first case of confirmed coronary disease in North Rhine-Westphalia.
For the first time in Baden-Wurttemberg, a patient has been diagnosed with the new Coronavirus. This is a 25-year-old man from the district of Gaopeningen, the Ministry of Health in Stuttgart announced on Tuesday evening. He was probably infected during an Italian trip to Milan. The patient had flu-like symptoms following his return and had contacted the local health authority. He is to be taken to a clinic on Tuesday evening and isolated and treated there.
Minister of Health Manne Lucha (Greens) cancels his vacation and will report the case together with experts on Wednesday. He urged caution: "Baden-Wurttemberg has already taken an early stance on this case. All the bodies involved work closely and intensively together,"said the Minister. It is now being determined who had contact with the patient. Close contacts would be isolated at home and asked daily about their state of health, the ministry continueYeah.
The Minister appealed to returnees to follow the recommendations of the Robert Koch Institute: Those returning from areas where Covid-19 cases occur and develop fever, cough or shortness of breath within 14 days of the return should avoid unnecessary contacts, if possible stay at home, keep your distance from other people while coughing and sneezing, wash your hands regularly and thoroughly with soap and water and visit a doctor after checking in by phone, indicating the region of travel.
After the outbreak of a Coronavirus epidemic in Italy, more and more European states are reporting evidence of the pathogen. Austria, Croatia, mainland Spain and Switzerland reported cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday. On the Spanish holiday island of Tenerife, after a confirmed illness, a large hotel with around 1000 tourists, including Germans, was practically quarantined. In the Gulf region, the virus also threatens to spread.
On the Spanish holiday island of Tenerife, after a confirmed illness, a large hotel with around 1000 tourists was practically quarantined, including probably Germans. In the Gulf region, the virus also threatens to spread.
Meanwhile, European health ministers in Rome wanted to consult on the Coronavirus. Many of the new evidence in European countries is related to Italy, which was particularly affected recently. In Tenerife, a visitor from Lombardy tested positive for the virus, as the Spanish Ministry of Health reported. The region is currently the area most affected by the virus in northern Italy. In the evening it became known that the wife of the tourist was also tested positively. Both patients are isolated in a hospital on Canary Island.
The hotel where the couple had been on vacation for almost a week has been quarantined since Tuesday morninYeah. After a report by Antena 3, guests were invited to stay in their rooms until further notice. Doctors should examine people. "We must assume that German nationals are also among those affected by the quarantine measures," the Foreign Office said.
Also on the Spanish mainland, the pathogen has now been proven to have arrived. In Barcelona, according to the Spanish Ministry of Health, a woman was tested positively. The newspaper "La Vanguardia" reported that it had recently returned from a trip to northern Italy.
The new Coronavirus has also reached Austria. A 24-year-old woman and her same-age friend were tested positive for the virus, a spokesman for the clinic in Innsbruck reported. Both came from the Bergamo area in Italy. In the meantime, both are in good condition and are free of fever again, says the director of the University Hospital for Internal Medicine, Gunter Weiss. The search for possible contacts was underway. A hotel in Innsbruck where the sick woman worked was also closed. The extent to which guests were affected was initially unclear.
In Croatia, the first infection was detected in a man who had previously been in Italy a few days before. According to the Federal Office of Health in the canton of Tessin, the first evidence in Switzerland took place. Details were not known at first. The canton of Tessin enters the Italian Lombardy, where several cases have occurred.
In the afternoon, Federal Health Minister Jens Spahn (CDU) wanted to meet in Rome with colleagues from Italy, Austria, Slovenia, Switzerland, Croatia and France, as well as EU Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides. Ministers were expected to advise on their response to the spread of Sars-CoV-2. Spahn had said on Monday that a virus does not stop at national borderYeah. "The Corona epidemic has arrived in Europe as an epidemic."
In Italy, the spread of the disease has been demonstrated in more and more regions. It is currently by far the country with the most recorded cases in Europe. In Sicily there was the first case of southern Italy, the civil protection chief Angelo Borrelli announced on Tuesday in Rome. Also in South Tyrol an infected person was reported, in Tuscany two. Overall, the number of people in the country increased to around 280. How such a rapid outbreak could have occurred is not yet known. In Lombardy, ten municipalities in the province of Lodi have been declared closed zones, where security forces control who is allowed in and out.
According to a new ECDC assessment, the risk of infection with the virus is currently "low to moderate" for Europeans. As "moderate to high", the Centre estimates the risk that cases such as those currently occurring in Italy may accumulate elsewhere. No new cases were reported in Germany on Tuesday.
The spread of the virus hits the German economy in the middle of the flare. As economic growth stagnated in the fourth quarter of 2019 compared to the previous quarter, Europe's largest economy is entering the current year without a significant backlash. The German economy is concerned about developments in Italy, the third largest euro economy. "Germany's strongest trump card has developed into a weak point: the openness and dependence on exports and global trade," explained Carsten Brzeski, Chief Popular Value of ING Germany.
There are consequences for the sport of lung disease: for example, Inter Milan's Europa League game against Ludogorets Rasgrad will take place in front of empty ranks. The World Table tennis Association will also postpone the planned team championship in the South Korean Busan by at least three months at the end of MarcYeah. In South Korea, the number of new evidence recently increased further: within 24-hour intervals of 144 cases to now 977. The number of deaths rose to ten.
The US government wants to make billions of dollars to fight the new Coronavirus. The virus was "under control" in the US, but the government wanted to act cautiously, US President Donald Trump told reporters Tuesday in New Delhi. According to media reports, around a billion dollars of funding is to be invested in the development of a vaccine. But Congress has yet to approve the funds.
In Iran, the number of reported deaths rose from twelve to fifteen, as the Health Ministry spokesman said on state television on Tuesday. According to him, 95-34 people were tested positive for the virus from different parts of the country more than the day before. Iran's regional neighbours Iraq, Kuwait, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) reported several new cases of patients who had previously travelled to Iran. Some countries in the Arab region tried to prevent proliferation through reduced travel links with Iran.
In China, too, the situation remains tense. As the Beijing Health Commission reported, more 71 people were killed. As a result, the total number of deaths in China increased to 2663, with the number of confirmed infections climbing 508 to 77 658. Since a new change in the count almost a week ago, the daily increase in new infections in China has decreased. Experts, however, continue to assume a high dark number. (dpa)
++ The article was updated at 20.57 o'clock. +