More and more people in Germany and other countries are infected with the new Coronavirus. Within one day, the number of confirmed infections in Germany rose from 66 to 117, as reported by Robert Koch-Institut (RKI) on Sunday morning in Berlin.
Approximately 60 countries are affected worldwide, according to the World Health Organization about ten more than the day before.
In Baden-Wurttemberg and Bavaria, students should stay at home after the end of the fascinating holidays if they have stayed in one of the risk areas. In the southwest, this also expressly concerns many officials and police officers. As risk areas, the Ministry of Health identifies the northern Italian province of Lodi in the Lombardy Region and the city of Vo in the province of Padua (Veneto Region) as well as parts of China, Iran and South Korea.
With confirmed infections in three men, the Coronavirus reached Frankfurt am Main in Hesse. Known infections now exist in Bavaria, Baden-Wurttemberg, Hesse, Lower Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia, Hamburg, Bremen, Schleswig-Holstein and Rhineland-Palatinate.
Only in the particularly affected Heinsberg district in North Rhine-Westphalia were there 65 confirmed cases. The quarantine ended here for several hundred inhabitants. NRW-wide significantly more than 70 cases have been identified. For the first time on Sunday a case was announced in which there is no link to the Heinsberg district. The virus was detected in a 51-year-old man who had returned from Iran. No corona virus infections were reported from Saarland and the new federal states until Sunday evening.
Several major events in Germany were cancelled or postponed during the weekend. Following the cancellation of the world's largest travel fair ITB in Berlin, it was unclear whether exhibitors would be compensated. The restaurant guide Guide Michelin cancelled the planned star rental in Hamburg for TuesdaYeah. Due to the Coronavirus, the Dusseldorf trade fair "Pro Wine" is also postponed.
Due to the Sars-CoV-2 infection in an employee, all subsidiaries of the machine manufacturer DMG Mori in Pfronten remain closed in the alleyway on Monday and Tuesday. Around 1600 employees are affected. The Austrian authorities refused entry to a group of students from North Rhine-Westphalia because of a Coronavirus suspicion behind the border into Bavaria.
In some German supermarkets there were hamster runs, even in federal countries where no infection has been confirmed. Customers increasingly used durable food and beverages. Also shelves with cleaning cloths or disinfectants were empty. However, according to trade estimates, there are no shortages.
In China, within one day more 35 people died of Covid-19 disease, the day before that there were 47.573 new diseases reported. Thus far 2870 people in China have died of the new Coronavirus.
Measures to contain the virus are likely to reduce air pollution in China at least in part. Two satellite images published by the US Space Agency Nasa show relatively high nitrogen dioxide emissions in China prior to the Coronavirus measures in early January and significantly lower emissions in February. The decline of Wuhan, which was mainly affected, spread across China.
Outside China, the virus spreads particularly strongly in South Korea. There the authorities recorded almost 1400 new infections at the weekend. 18 deaths are associated with the virus.
In Iran, too, the number of Covid-19 cases is steadily rising. 54 people have died so far, 978 tested positivYeah. The press conference of the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now to be run via a video switchboard, according to the media department in the Ministry of Culture on Sunday evening.
Australia reported the first death. And for the first time in the United States, too, a person died as a result of the infection. US Vice President Mike Pence said in Washington that the US tightened its travel guidelines for the affected regions of Italy and South Korea to the highest level four.
The Foreign Office also advised against unnecessary trips to the province of Lodi in Lombardy as well as to the city of Vo. Government circles said that travel and safety instructions would be constantly reviewed and, if necessary, adapted immediately. The US airline Delta Air Lines cancels flights between New York and Milan due to the new Coronavirus, the company announced on its homepage on Sunday.
In Europe, Italy is still the country most affected by nearly 1700-year-old infections. The Italian Government is now planning a package of aid for the economy, which has been further hit by the Coronavirus outbreak, of three billion euros.
On Sunday evening, the Italian government extended the closure of eleven municipalities in the north of the country. The demarcated areas are ten municipalities in Lombardy, including Bertonico, Casalpusterlengo, Castiglione D'Adda and Codogno, and Vo in Veneto. The total of about 50.000 people have not been allowed to leave their places for about a week. In addition, the government in Rome decided to take precautionary measures, such as the ban on sports competitions, for an extended danger zone.
The health of Pope Francis is of concern. He refused to participate in the traditional fasting exercises outside Rome "due to a cold".
The spread of Covid-19 also has an increasing impact on international sporting eventsYeah. In Italy, five A-series football games were released at the weekend, including the top meeting between Juventus Turin and Inter Milan. German football is not yet directly affected by possible effects.
The federal government does not expect a quick end to the fight against the virus. Minister of the Interior Horst Seehofer (CSU) said the Sunday picture: "I expect that we will have a vaccine for the change of the year." Until then, the virus must be combated by means of disease control. Also, the closure of regions or cities did not completely exclude Seehofer as the last resort. Health Minister Jens Spahn (CDU) told the "world on Sunday" that the number of infections increases the likelihood of serious events or deaths.
Finance Minister Olaf Scholz (SPD) sees sufficient resources available to counter the negative effects of the spread of the virus on the economy. "If the situation required such an impetus, we also have the means to set up a stimulus programme," Scholz told the "world on Sunday". (dpa