With new infections in Germany, the Coronavirus Sars-CoV-2 is once again closer to the population. The risk of getting stuck in this country is still very low. Nonetheless, the news of the new organism currently affecting the world is disturbing. Not everything about him is known yet.
First infections with the new Coronavirus occurred at the end of last year. Residents of the central Chinese city of Wuhan came to the hospital with mysterious lung diseases. Soon, millions of cities near Wuhan were affected and the virus quickly reached the whole world via infected travelers and businessmen. Several tens of thousands of cases have now been officially confirmed, and the number is slowly approaching the 100.000 mark, and researchers believe that we are on the verge of a pandemic.
Figures from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and health authorities from China, the USA or the European Union, compiled by the CSSE of Johns Hopkins University, show how the outbreak has developed. Within a few weeks from the beginning of January to the end of February, the number of officially reported infected spread from a few dozen to more than 80.000. The number of deaths has now exceeded 2.700 and continues to rise.
The statistics currently available on the outbreak of the Coronavirus should be used with caution. On the one hand, this is because, in a situation as big as the one in China, it is particularly difficult for authorities to keep an overview. Experts assume that there is still a large dark number of patients who are infected but whose cases have not yet been officially registered.
In addition, there were differences of opinion over the course of the outbreak as to who should be registered as a Corona case. This shows the steep rise on the 13th. FebruarYeah. What's happened? What happened? At least one Chinese health authority changed its figures that day, those in the particularly affected province of Hubei. Prior to this, cases where laboratory tests were positive were recorded. However, since these tests did not always reliably point to the virus, patients with the new Covid-19 disease have since been diagnosed with the symptoms. Although the numbers may differ, one thing is certain: the number of Corona cases continues to rise.
The new virus belongs to the Coronavir family, similar to the Sars virus. Again and again, both viruses are compared. And according to the name, the new virus Sars-CoV-2 is a successor to the old virus Sars-Cov, which in the years 2002 and 2003 triggered an epidemic of tens of thousands of infected. But the case numbers clearly show that both outbreaks are hardly comparable.
Avoid crowds and stay indoors
The new Coronavirus is transmitted by droplet infection. Even infected people who still feel healthy are already contagious. That is why we must distance ourselves from other people. A little more than a metre is enough; no shaking hands, no hugs to welcome; avoid large crowds as much as possible.
Anyone who feels bad should stay home. To protect himself and others. This applies not only to the workplace: those who think they have been infected with Corona should first call the doctor's office or the health department, rather than simply forcing themselves into the full waiting room.
Wash hands regularly and thoroughly, i.e. for at least twenty seconds, with soap and up to the wrist. Anyone who wants to use a disinfectant should be careful that it is marked as a virus, so it can really kill viruses.
Also, unwashed hands should not touch food or the eyes and moutYeah. If you touch surfaces on which the pathogen sticks and then touch your face, you can get infected. That is why it is wise, for example, to press elevator buttons or door openers with the ankle or elbow rather than with the fingers.
Those who may themselves be contagious can protect the public by disposing of used paper towels immediately and safely. If you have to cough or sneeze, you should not hold your hand in front of your face, but your elbow.
In the event of a coronavirus outbreak, it is crucial to avoid other avoidable infectious diseases. This applies particularly to seasonal influenza. For personal use and in order not to unnecessarily burden the health system, vaccination should be carried out in particular for the elderly, pregnant or people with pre-existing diseases. In addition, you will be advised to have pneumococcal vaccination.
Providing for a few days always makes sense. With durable food, important medicines and everything small children need. (The Federal Office of Civil Protection offers a "personal checklist" online.) Hamster runs are not necessary.
Paper models are already moist after short wear and no longer stop a virus attack. Surgical surgical masks covering the nose and mouth protect less the wearer, but above all its environment. Certified respiratory masks are available in three safety categories. They offer protection, but their use for the wearer is so unpleasant that they are impractical for everyday life. No one will want to wear these masks for long.
The disease caused by the new Coronavirus is spreading much faster than Sars. At the beginning of the millennium, according to the WHO, not even 5.000 people were infected at the same time. The number of deaths is significantly higher in the current outbreak, but this is because many more people have been infected with the virusYeah. Already two months after the onset of the current outbreak, more people have died from the new Covid-19 disease than from Sars as a whole.
Nevertheless, the high numbers do not mean that the many thousands affected are seriously ill. Elderly patients and chronic patients in particular suffer from fever, cough, shortness of breath and, in particularly severe cases, pneumonia, which can also end in death. For far more infected, the disease is rather harmless, they feel very slight signs of a cold and recover quickly. On the one hand, although the number of deaths is constantly increasing, on the other hand, there are also more and more genes.
Until recently, the outbreak focused mainly on China and some surrounding countries, including Japan and South Korea. But now Italy has become another centre of the outbreak, where there are now more infected than in Japan. In the north of the country, authorities reacted by temporarily closing schools and kindergartens, the Carnival in Venice was cancelled, as were games of the first Italian football league.
This has also increased the risk for Germany in other cases. Since the end of January, there have been around twenty patients in this country with a Covid-19 infection. 14 Cases occurred in Bavaria. They belong to a so-called infectious scavenger, their infections were all traced back to an infected person who had entered from China. In addition, there are Corona patients in Baden-Wurttemberg, North Rhine-Westphalia and two other members of a group of around 120 people who had been taken from Wuhan to Germany in early February. The remaining returnees from this group had been able to leave quarantine in mid-February. They had previously spent two weeks in a barracks in the Rhineland-Palatinate GermersheiYeah. None of them were able to detect the virus. The same applies to another group of returnees who until recently had been isolated in Berlin-Copenhagen. They too were able to leave the quarantine after being tested negative repeatedly.
Read more about the new Coronavirus, its possible origin and the epidemic