Moscow, Russian news agency 27. After the peak of infectious diseases, the number of infected people entered the so-called plateau for about 10 days, and then further decreased under quarantine conditions, According to ancha baranova, Ph.D. in life science of Russia News Agency and professor of GMU School of systems biology in the United States.
Balanlova believes that the peak in New York will be reached in about two weeks. She pointed out that the epidemic situation in China has begun to decline, but there are still 20-30 new patients every day.
In the past 24 hours, the death toll in New York state of corona rose by 100 to 385, according to New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo.
But the United States - red), before that, was very, very far away, and Russia just came to a peak. "--- baranov said.
She also clarified that in theory, there was about a incubation period on the plateau, that is, the plateau began to reduce cases in about 10 days, but this was carried out under quarantine conditions.
According to the latest data of Johns Hopkins University calculated based on federal and local statistics, the number of confirmed covid-19 cases in the United States, Over 75000 deathAbout According to the University, there are nearly 82000 cases in China, and more than 3.2 million people have died. The second is Italy, where more than 8050 people are ill and more than 810 are dead.
The steps Russia has taken to fight the Colorado virus are remarkable, and Russia has actually surpassed all preparations, the WHO representative said earlier. According to the latest data, 840 cases of coronavirus infection were confirmed in Russia, 38 recovered and 2 died.
On March 11, the World Health Organization announced a new outbreak of coronavirus infection with the covid-19 epidemic. According to the latest data of the World Health Organization, 460000 people have been infected and more than 20000 people have died in the world.
An update on covid-19 in Russia and around the world can be found on the stakoronavirus website