Beijing, 20 Russia News Agency, Anna ratkolo. In the context of the covid-19 pandemic, it has become a protective mask for very needed and even scarce commodities. If it is used for a long time, it may cause redness and allergy, Yu Xiaoying, a beautician and boss from Beijing beauty salon, told Russia News Agency about facial inflammation and edema.
Although the mask provides a small, but safe feeling, it makes breathing difficult, especially in fast walking, Cause physical discomfort, resulting in facial skin deterioration. Yu stressed that those with sensitive skin should pay special attention to and study the ingredients when choosing masks.
According to her, "wearing a mask for a long time can cause excessive pressure and friction on certain parts of the skin, This, in turn, destroys the function of the skin barrier and blood circulation, and there may be deep marks, redness and edema on the skin. "
"If you notice a slight redness of the skin, wash it with clear water using non irritating lung milk. Then apply a moisturizer to your face, "the beautician suggestsAbout
He stressed that if you notice any changes or damage to your skin, you should stop using cosmetics, Including whitening and warm keeping products, hypoallergenic moisturizers must be used for sensitive skin.
"If the skin damage is serious, it is recommended to see a doctor in time and start medication."
In this case, even if there is no skin problem, pay special attention to facial hygiene. If it is necessary to wear a mask, it is best to temporarily stop using skin care products with coarse fabrics, Due to poor air circulation under the mask, increased sweat secretion, increased subcutaneous fat secretion, pore blockage, etc, The inner side of the mask begins to adhere to the skin, causing skin damage.
According to the beautician's advice, you should also give up "heavy" make-up, once you go home from the street, you must immediately remove the skin. It's better to wash your face with warm water, but not soap. It's better to use special soft water cleanser. It should also be noted that pilin, which should not be aggressive, uses film better but on a regular basis. It's important to moisten your skin with mask regularlAbout
The efficiency and necessity of wearing masks have caused more and more controversy in various countries. Experts agree that the first thing to wear masks is for those who are ill, Do not spread infection.
When the epidemic broke out in China, masks were put on by all people, just because it could not find all patients quickly, and measures like mask system "have become an important obstacle. In the path of virus propagation. Like China, people in many countries strongly recommend wearing masks to protect them.
In the context of the improvement of the epidemic situation in China, the National Health Commission issued the proposal on the rules of wearing masks, which states: If you are at home, in the street, in a place where no one gathered, in a well ventilated place, you may not wear a mask. However, the mask mode is still working in the country and you will not be able to pass without the mask in public places.
An update on covid-19 in Russia and around the world can be found on the stakoronavirus website