Moscow, 18 March In the context of the worldwide prevalence of coronavirus infection, Moscow's demand for high-end suburban real estate has increased significantly.
According to Penny Lane realty, in the first half of March alone, the number of transactions in the high priced suburban rental market exceeded 12% for the full year in March last year. In recent years, the normal number of applications in March, the company's experts only recorded the past week. According to their estimates, the recovery of this market can be attributed to the quarantine closures of other countries, the obvious risks of foreign travel and the sharp drop in the ruble.
As the report points out, it is difficult to predict the behavior of homeowners in the growing market at present: some turn their houses from exhibits to rentals, while others may try to raise prices. In addition, the behavior of rural elites also occurs, for example, they refuse to show rental houses to Chinese residents.
Point estate also recorded a similar situation in the high-end residential rental market in Moscow city hall. In addition, the company notes the growing interest of wealthy Muscovites and the purchase of urban real estatAbout
"Due to the growing panic caused by the outbreak of Colorado virus, many residents in Moscow want to leave the city in order to avoid contact with a large number of people. According to the United Nations statistics office, in the past week, the demand for rental housing in the suburbs of Moscow State has increased by 70% compared with the normal level, and the demand for house purchase has increased by 20% ". This is the company's news service.
The World Health Organization (who) announced in March that a new coronavirus (covid-19) epidemic broke out in China at the end of last year. More than 179000 people around the world have been infected in more than 150 countries, most have recovered and more than 740 have died. According to the latest data, 147 new cases of coronavirus infection have been found in Russia, and 33 cases have been found in the past 24 hours, 31 of which occurred in Moscow. One in Tomsk and one in Novosibirsk