Do some societies handle the outbreak of the Coronavirus more calmly and better than others? The Berlin ethnologist HansJorg Dilger has an answer to this question. Dilger, 51 years old, has been researching for more than two decades at the Free University of Berlin the treatment of different cultures with disease, health and healing.
TIME ONLINE: Mr Dilger, in Germany, people are buying toilet paper and disinfectants out of fear of Covid-19. Is hamster a German phenomenon?
HansJorg Dilger: No, hamster runs also exist in the USA, Hong Kong, Japan and Australia. They are a way for people to create control and security. Either because they have the impression that the state is doing too little to protect them from dangers, or because massive government action suddenly puts them at risk.
ONLINE TIME: Another phenomenon is respiratory masks. Many people in Asia wear them, of course, but they are rarely seen in Western countries. How do you explain that?
Dilger: Such masks are more established in Asia. They are also worn there against fine dust, even if in many cases they are ineffective. In Germany, on the other hand, people find it strange to cover their faces. It's like trying to hide from other people. Some people find the sight of people in masks in public places irritating.
TIME ONLINE: Do the two examples show that societies react very differently to diseases?
Dilger: Yes, societies deal with diseases differently. But I wouldn't explain it with cultural differences alone.
TIME ONLINE: Why?
Dilger: When an epidemic breaks out, people in all societies have the same questions: How does the infection happen? How can I protect myself and my family? This is in China as well as in GermanYeah. It is now often said that people in more collectivist societies such as China or Singapore are treating the epidemic differently from those in more individualistic societies such as Germany or the USA. However, this overlooks the fact that in many of these countries authoritarian forms of government and state exist to a considerable extent determine how to deal with the epidemic.
TIME ONLINE: Do you think the image of the tolerant Asians, which is often drawn when dealing with Covid-19, is wrong?
Dilger: I wouldn't put up with cultural differences. What we call culture is in many cases inextricably linked to government action. The Chinese state has reacted to the Corona outbreak, for example, with very authoritarian measures. In the province of Hubei, around 60 million people were quarantined for several weeks. Every citizen has faced a threat of punishment if he resists. We should not conclude from this that people there are better or more relaxed in responding to the quarantine or even more satisfied with the situation. Or take the example of Singapore: hospitals and police have systematically collected all contacts of infected people there. Such monitoring would be difficult to imagine in Germany.
ONLINE TIME: Not all countries where the spread has been slowed down are authoritarian states. South Korea, for example, seems to have gotten better control of the virus, as has Japan. Both are considered more disciplined and more distant.
Dilger: Of course culture also plays a role. Government action and cultural issues are interdependent. It is also crucial that the government has the confidence of the people and that the safeguards are seen as convincing.
TIME ONLINE: In Germany, many citizens complain about the restrictions on freedom, for example when football matches have to take place without an audiencYeah.
Dilger: Yes, freedom of decision has a high value in Germany. There is also decentralisation in a federal system such as Germany. It is not always clear to citizens who is responsible for measures against the disease, often the municipalities have more to decide than the federation. This can be complex, long and diffuse. And it can strengthen citizens in the belief that they have to take care of themselves because the government or authorities are not acting in a uniform way.
TIME ONLINE: Are some societies more afraid of disease than others?
Dilger: Here, too, circumstances matter. There are countries in the world, such as some African countries, where governments are currently unable and will not be able to tackle a disease such as Covid-19 comprehensively. We lack the resources, the infrastructure. This, of course, raises other concerns. At the same time, presenting Corona as a danger will be a challenge there. If the population has been exposed for decades to other risks from malnutrition or diseases such as malaria, it will not be easy to convey that a disease with relatively harmless symptoms is a danger. On the other hand, many of these countries have tried mechanisms to combat epidemic outbreaks in recent years.
ONLINE TIME: Cultural practices in everyday life, such as shaking hands or, for example, in Italy, the greeting with implied kiss, are an essential factor in the transmission of the virus. How quickly can a society learn to train for something like this?
This can go fast. However, it depends on whether people are convinced that the changed behaviour protects them. And that depends very much on how and by whom the protection measure is communicated.
ONLINE TIME: You have to explaiYeah.
Dilger: When dealing with Ebola in West and Central Africa, we have seen that central protection measures have often been ineffective. The population has often distrusted central governments, which politicians and authorities considered corrupt. The people also did not always trust the international organisations. The employees came in protective suits, which seemed strange to many. In addition, the helpers reminded many people of the colonial dependence that continues to this day.
ONLINE TIME: What helped instead?
Dilger: Health organisations had to build trust at local level, in every village. Talk to the churches, build local hotlines. What we can learn from this is that epidemics are not just about the message itself or about people not wanting to implement the measures for cultural reasons. It is almost always a question of whether the government and the health organisations manage to create trust in the population. This is now also crucial for Covid-19. There the different disciplines of science can work better together, and Germany can also prepare better.
ONLINE TIME: How?
Dilger: We could systematically prepare the experiences of previous epidemics in terms of their social and cultural aspects. Corona is not the first epidemic, there was previously avian flu, swine flu, EHEC, Ebola. Germany could help prepare recommendations for other countries on how and through which actors they could communicate prevention measures. This applies especially to countries whose health systems will not be strong enough to stem the epidemic.
TIME ONLINE: What are the biggest lessons from the past epidemics?
Dilger: One lesson is that certain patterns recur, such as conspiracy theories, which we now also see at Corona. We find this in all epidemic outbreakYeah. Recently, for example, the theory circulated that the virus was developed in a high-security laboratory in Wuhan. There was a similar theory with HIV/AIDS. At that time there was a rumour in many African societies that the American secret service had developed the virus as a kind of bioweapon to reduce the population of Africa.
TIME ONLINE: How do you explain that people put such conspiracy theories into the world at a time when correct information about life and death is decided?
Dilger: There seems to be a need to discover something behind the official information. The feeling that there is even more that is currently spreading in Germany independently of Corona. In the context of epidemics, conspiracy theories also often establish direct links to the globalised world. Outside, far away is a threat to many. After the Corona outbreak in China, a photo of a woman who had eaten bat soup was posted on social media.
TIME ONLINE: What turned out to be a fake: neither the image is related to the Corona outbreak nor was the virus transmitted from bats to humans.
Dilger: Yes. During Ebola, the theory was that the virus could have come from monkeys or bats and later passed on to humans. Such images serve the idea that otherness produces epidemics. This perception has a long historical history and is activated in epidemic moments. The result is stigmatisation and racism. Chinese-looking people are suddenly perceived as a threat, people no longer go to Chinese restaurants, there are hostilities against Asian citizens on the street, even violence and murder threatYeah.
TIME ONLINE: Does the character of a society emerge during an epidemic?
Dilger: I would say that dealing with diseases shows how societies perceive themselves and how they want to live together. And how they locate themselves in the globalized world.
Read more about the outbreak of the new Coronavirus here