Tallinn, March 19. /tass/ The city of Tallinn will host a dictator for Russian speaking residents of Estonia's capital on April 4, despite the popularity of covid-19. On Thursday, mayor Mikhail kerwatt announced.
In my opinion, the love and respect for mother tongue is undoubtedly one of the best ways to unite. This is the words of Communication Bureau of Tallinn municipal government. "In view of this, the city decided to maintain its positive action in Tallinn: on April 4, at 14:00, there will be a Tallinn dictation." Of course, it will be held remotely, and we are working on technical solutions and negotiating with the media. "
"In Tallinn, over the years, it's not just a good tradition, but an event that citizens really look forward to." It is well known that the dictator's headquarters "postponed its activities until autumn," he noted. -However, in the current situation, we need positive emotions: at this moment, everything is very difficult, and many people will feel unexplained fear of the future, But that's why we need more mutual support. "
According to mayor Tallinn, the city authorities intend to retain the traditional dictatorship training courses. " As far as we are concerned, we organize the traditional Russian class on Saturday. About -Of course, in the current situation, we can't invite anyone to Tallinn University. Therefore, we will strengthen Estonia's image as an electronic country and do the work of Natalia chuikin, a well-known linguist, on the Internet. "
He promised to report next week on the details of the dictatorship.
Organizers of the "this week" dictatorship decided to postpone action from April 4 to the fall of 2020, with a new date to be announced on March 25. St. Petersburg is the capital of stocks this year. The author is a complete dictator "writer Andre grasimov, who created five parts of the spatial theme of the text. The event is held annually for all who wish to participate, and for the first time in 2004 by students from the Department of Humanities at the National University of Novosibirsk.
On the coronation of Estonia
Cases of coronavirus infection in Estonia reached 267 on Thursday morning. The day before, there were 258 people infected with the new type of coronavirus in Estonia. As a result, nine new cases of coronavirus infection have been detected in the Republic in the past 24 hours, compared with 33 the previous day.
Estonia reported its first case on 27 February. On 13 March, the government imposed a state of emergency on the epidemicAbout All public gatherings have been banned, schools have been converted to distance and family education since March 16, and the work of interest groups and departments has been suspended. Since 17 March, Estonia has resumed border controls and banned foreigners.
It is reported that a new coronavirus (covid-19) broke out in Central China at the end of 2019, Later, it spread to more than 140 countries and was recognized by the World Health Organization. According to the latest data, more than 210000 people around the world are infected with AIDS. Nearly 85 million people are reported dead in China. Page: 1 199 cases have been registered in Russia. In order to inform Russia of the situation, the government has launched stogroneviros resources of the Russian Federation