Read this interview in English.
What seemed impossible a week ago is now reality: the Corona pandemic is fundamentally changing life in Germany. For the first time in the history of the Federal Republic, a worldwide travel warning applies. Citizens should stay at home. Cinemas, pubs and shops are closed, kitas and schools are closed. It is the beginning of a hard time, of which no one knows exactly how long it will last. At this time of uncertainty, we need facts to hold on to and serious scientists to explain them to us. The virologist Christian Drosten has become the explanation for this outbreak. His podcast in the GDR is heard by tens of thousands every day. ZEIT ONLINE met Drosten in his office at the Institute of Virology at the Berlin Charite.
ONLINE TIME: Life as we know it is changing. Mr. Drosten, are you actually worried?
Christian Drosten: In fact, I am partly suppressing the situation, as are many others. I hope for my family and for me that it won't happen to us. Which can be very different. And yet others even completely disguise the new reality.
ONLINE TIME: But listen to you, the people in the country, your word is currently important. What does this role do to you?
Drosten: I just got into it. And it's starting to get a little too much for me: media questions, policy advice. I'm not a politician. I'm a scientist. I'm happy to explain what I know. Scientific knowledge must be communicated transparently to everyone, so that everyone can get a picture of the situation. But I also say clearly where the limits of my knowledge are. I've always done that.
ONLINE TIME: The country is going down. Kitas and schools have been closed nationwide since this weeYeah. Is politics responding appropriately at the moment?
Threats: Few of the decisions of the last few days were purely evidential, many were mainly political and certainly correct. They have certainly come about partly under the impression of strict measures in neighbouring countries. However, I have the impression that a switch has now been switched off in all the states. Now a decision has been made against events and a decision has been taken against Kita and school operations.
ONLINE TIME: As we hear, they had a large advisory role in the closure of schools. Was it the right decision to make now?
I don't know about that. It will probably not be until later whether it was the right time. I have always reminded you that scientists from other disciplines must also be consulted. And that such a decision lies outside the competence of an epidemiologically trained virologist, which I am. I do not see my job in shortening the truth, but in explaining the aspects of the truth, but also in allowing uncertainties and saying: you do not know that, and then a political decision is needed. And as long as it's communicated as a political decision, I think that's fine.
ONLINE TIME: Will the measures work?
Threats: They will hopefully drastically change the dynamics of the transmission. It may be possible to judge that by Easter. Perhaps then we will see that we have fewer infected people than would be expected after the current exponential growth. That the curve will flatten. However, this will have less impact on the death rate. Because the people who will die in the time until Easter are now partially infected or infect themselves in the coming dayYeah. In addition, the decisions that have now been taken do not have an immediate effect, but only after a few days. So slowly certain things have slipped in, people have organised care for their children, more and more people have understood that you should no longer meet in groups. It's gonna take him a while to practice.
TIME ONLINE: Now we are also discussing a curfew. Also because perhaps not everyone has yet understood that he should stay at home and reduce social contacts, also to protect others.
Threatening: I think the crumbs are falling these days. The measures are still quite fresh, but now most of them will be clear. There will always be some imperfections. Of course, they do not exist in China; they will be improved there. But I'm glad we don't live in a society like this. And I'm also not sure if it's necessary for the overall picture of the epidemic to pick out the very last remaining imperfections.
ONLINE TIME: So you wouldn't say in front of Corona parties: From now on, no one can go out?
Drosten: Who am I to say such a thing? As a virologist in my field, I can say up to a certain point, so it is. Other things are out of my league. I'm not a scientist anymore. I'm just a private person. I have no mandate from any voter. However, I believe that the closure of pubs and restaurants, the rejection of major events and the closure of kites and schools in combination has already achieved a great deal. It is about preventing the greatest proportion of contacts.
TIME ONLINE: How do you assess how Germany managed the start of this outbreak?
Threatening: I think Germany recognized its outbreak very early. We are two or three weeks earlier than a few neighbouring countrieYeah. We did it because we do so much diagnostics, so much testing. I'm sure we've missed cases in this first phase, too, that's always the case. But I don't think we missed a major breakout. For this thesis also says that we are seeing an expected rise in cases in Germany. But we also see that we have fewer deaths than other countries. So one might think that we are not too far from the whole case. We certainly do not see all cases for a long time, but more than other countries that test less.
TIME ONLINE: Italy, for example?
Threats: In Italy, it is probably mainly who is admitted to the hospital that is being tested. Because people there know that there aren't enough tests anyway, they stay at home with symptoms first, and then when they get worse, they go straight to the hospital. They arrive there with difficulty breathing and actually have to go to intensive care. And at this point, they will be tested for the first time. That is why the average age of the cases covered in Italy is much higher than that of us. I assume that many young Italians are infected or have been infected without ever being detected. This also explains the supposed higher mortality rate from the virus there.
ONLINE TIME: How long are we going to get there with the testing?
Threatening: At some point that will no longer be possible. We simply cannot increase the test capacities as quickly as the number of cases increases. Then two things come together: some of those who are already sick will die at Covid-19. And because we can't test them all anymore, we won't have them all in the statistics either. Then our mortality rate will also rise. It'll look like the virus has become more dangerous, but it's a statistical artifact, a distortionYeah. It shows what is already beginning: we are missing more and more infections.
ONLINE TIME: What can be done about it?
Threats: You have to take shortcuts. If one person in the household was tested positively, we could define the whole household as positive, even without testing. Because you just know it's going to happen like this: if a family member is infected, it infects everyone else. If you say they're all positive, you save yourself a lot of testing. Imagine you're infected, and the next day your wife has to line up. And then maybe the test doesn't start and she has to come again. That doesn't make any sense. It's better if the whole family stays in isolation. This has already been done in the Netherlands and I will now propose it in talks with health services in Germany.
TIME ONLINE: What other options are there?
Threats: At some point suspicions will only be reported on the basis of symptoms and then they will also be more oriented in the statistics. At the same time, you will have to focus the tests you have on risk groups. If an otherwise healthy student is watching Netflix in her quarantine, I don't need to know, as a resident, if she's positive or not. I just want her to sit there and get better. But if my 70-year-old patient gets sick and isolated at home, then I'd like to test him, then call every two days and ask how the air is. So that he can be admitted to the hospital early enough and doesn't get into the ambulance with his lungs glued together, where he has to go straight to the ICU.
TIME ONLINE: Will we soon have tests that are faster than the current ones?
Threats: Some are already commercially available, these are usually those that detect antibodies. They probably have a very variable qualitYeah. And they don't attack until after ten days, because only then have the patients formed antibodies. In the first ten days, these tests are virtually blind. It will have to wait until antibody tests are developed that directly detect a viral protein. From the format, you can imagine this as a pregnancy test, and so will the evaluation. If the tests are successful, they can completely replace the current ones. Then the queues are gone. I hope that may be the case in May.
By then, millions of people could have been infected. How well are the German clinics prepared for this?
Threats: No matter how you calculate it and who you talk to: we absolutely must reduce the cases now. Otherwise we won't make it. Otherwise, we will have exactly the same problems in a few weeks'time as in Italy. Although we have more beds, perhaps we are also a little better trained. But we still don't have enough of that good ICU. If you look at the current figures, even conservatively, you would need twice as much in the current intensive care capacities in order to be able to breathe all you would have to.
ONLINE TIME: Federal and national governments have now decided on an emergency plan. The aim is to create additional capacity for light cases and to double the number of intensive beds.
Drosten: This is a good plan. And for that we need the time we want to buy with the current measures. Now is the stage where respirators are ordered and stations are cleared. All of this (points to the building opposite) is hospital structure. This is currently being used as an office. Now it is cleaned again and beds are cleaned, including ventilation beds. These processes take a few weekYeah. For this, the weeks that we are now winning are not primarily to develop a vaccine.
Let's look at the virus itself. They've been exploring coronavirus for many years. What has surprised you most about Sars-CoV-2 so far?
Threats: It's very clear that it's multiplying in the throat. The Sars virus that caused the outbreak in the 2002/2003 years has never been able to isolate it from the throat. The Sars patients had much fewer viruses in their bodies and the pathogen was not so infectious for a long time. Moreover, there is an amazing biological innovation in the new Coronavirus: a protease cleavage in the surface protein of the virus. Whether or not this spot is present, for example, with bird flu, it makes a difference whether or not the agent makes poultry very sick.
ONLINE TIME: What's so special about this cleavage?
Threats: The surface protein must be cut to allow the virus to mature and enter the next cell. And this cleavage may allow the virus to be cut if it's just being released from the last infected cell. You can imagine it as a sheet of paper that you can tear off better from the notebook by perforation. And Sars-CoV-2 has this perforation.
ONLINE TIME: What does this mean for the disease?
You don't know that yet. It could lead to the virus coming out of the cell ripe, ready to enter the next. This could also be a reason for Sars-CoV-2 to multiply so well in the neck and so easily transmitted. It's time to settle this.
ONLINE TIME: Just like the question of mortality.
Threats: More important now is actually another size: the so-called infection fatality ratYeah. It indicates the proportion of all infected who die, including those who have no or few symptoms and are therefore not included as a case. So it is also an estimate of how high the dark number is. How many infect themselves completely quietly or only with neck scratches? Among the first infected in Germany, which we studied intensively for a study, there were quite a lot of them. At the moment I often hear that 80-percent of the cases are mild. But my impression is that there may even be more. That would be important to know.
TIME ONLINE: Elderly and sick people are particularly at risk of Covid-19. But again and again there are also reports of people in the early, mid-30s who have to go to the ICU or even die. How did this happen?
Threats: We also know from other respiratory diseases that young people are often seriously ill. However, we often know very little about people. The media then says, "There's a 35-year-old in intensive care." But a 35-year-old can have massive underlying diseases. For example, we know that a high body mass index is a major risk factor for Covid-19, as is coronary heart disease, i.e. a narrowing of the coronary arteries by vascular calcification. Pulmonary inflammation is a massive strain on the cardiovascular system. If it is damaged, it is sometimes overwhelmed by this burden. And there are many at the age of 35 to 50 who live with such risk factors. Another hypothesis is that someone inhales a massive dose of the virus directly into the lung. Then the virus immediately multiplies in the deep respiratory tract without causing an immune reaction in the throat. Then people might get really sick right away and the body doesn't have the means. Like I said, a hypothesis.
ONLINE TIME: After everything we know so far, men are more often ill than womeYeah. Is there any indication why that is?
You don't know that yet. It may help to increase the incidence of risk factors such as those mentioned earlier in men. Some studies also suggest that the binding agent that uses the virus to get into the cells, especially in Asians and especially in men in particularly large amounts, occurs on the cells. But to be honest, I think it fits the picture very well and that is why it has been interpreted in this way. Moreover, the distribution is also evident outside China, so I do not think this argument is very likely. There's just no good data yet.
ONLINE TIME: You have said before that there will be no drugs or vaccines in time for this outbreak. Is there no hope?
Threats: It is conceivable that the situation will get so bad that regulations will be put out of effect. One could imagine that certain aspects of the authorisation of vaccines for this crisis are being overlooked and that vaccines that have not been well tested are being vaccinated. These are adventurous ideas, and this is speculation. But if it gets very bad, and I don't want to rule that out right now, it would be conceivable. In any case, some biotech companies have long had vaccine candidates in the pipeline.
TIME ONLINE: For the first time this week, a volunteer test subject received a possible vaccine produced by a private biotech company. It's based on mRNA, so small inheritance chips. Is this the right approach now?
Threatening: I can't really judge it yet. I think it's a quick approach. I don't know if it's the mass approach we need right now. At the moment, this might be more of a surface protein of the virus, which can be mass produced and against which the immune system forms antibodies in large quantities. Some companies also follow this approacYeah. Such a vaccine would then be targeted at risk groups. If it gets really bad, you could imagine something like this happening.
ONLINE TIME: When would you say that it is bad enough for such steps?
Threatening: I cannot and will not imagine at the moment.
TIME ONLINE: Do you think a medicine is promising?
Drosten: I see Remdesivir as the best option. It was originally developed against Ebola. Studies are currently underway, but at the moment the manufacturer only allows the use under a special protocol in people who are already quite seriously ill and only in a small window of time. In fact, we want to give it to people sooner, and for that it should be available on a much larger scale. Now we have to wait for the first results.
TIME ONLINE: What about other medicines?
Threatening: I don't see any real options there. Neither the malaria product chloroquine nor the HIV medicines ritonavir/lopinavir. Both are investigated in clinical studies, but the results are not convincing.
TIME ONLINE: Italy is apparently on the verge of starting treatment trials with the plasma of people who have survived the infection.
Threatening: This is an obvious consideration. There are no published data yet. But there are a lot of young healthy patients who are perfect plasma donors. When they get sick, they make the best antibodies ever. If they are given to patients at the right time, this is already a possibility. I can imagine that in perhaps two months'time there will be the first small case reports from Germany as well. But very rapid successes are not to be expected, at least in the broad sense, from all these measures.
ONLINE TIME: Not even from the rising temperatures?
Threats: This effect will probably not be very stronYeah. He won't be able to stop the outbreak, but maybe something will help. And along with the isolation measures, I expect us to see an effect in a month.
ONLINE TIME: And then? Then how do we proceed?
Threats: We may have to assume that we have to spend a year in a state of emergency socially. But it is unlikely that all the measures will continue as they have now started. It will be possible and necessary to adjust. You have to go back to certain things. But during the first phase from now until the week after Easter, we really must act consistently and, at the same time, observe the development of the cases.
ONLINE TIME: A year in a state of emergency? What will our lives be like at this time?
No one knows. I can't imagine that either. Above all, we must find a way to deal with the schools. That is the most important thing. I think you can lose a semester or two at the university. But losing a school year is just too difficult, because so much depends on it, not least for the economy. We have to find solutions. But also, of course, for the risk groups.
ONLINE TIME: What are you thinking?
Threats: Certain measures could be developed specifically for risk groups. For example, by consistently testing older people and at-risk patients early and preferably hospitalized. And a permanent home office for risk group members, even for extended periods. Solutions could be found to isolate older people at home. There could be travel services, they need to be supplied with food. Honorary officials can help, maybe even the Federal Army. And children should be separated as consistently as possible from risk groups in everyday lifYeah.
TIME ONLINE: Then the schools could reopen too?
Threatening: Maybe you have to think about it: half the school can only use these passages, the other half just the others. There's no more big breaks and no more small breaks. Social spaces are no longer used, are blocked. This can reduce the effective group size in schools. It needs planning, but we have until the week after Easter. Most importantly, we now need scientific data on the school situation.
What if grandparents want to see their grandchildren again?
Threatening: Maybe grandchildren won't have to take a test until they want to visit Grandma and Grandpa. To make sure they don't infect them. These details need to be clarified now. Political decisions have now put a stop to social life for the first time. But it is also possible, I hope, to make adjustments, using scientific knowledge and model calculations specific to Germany.
ONLINE TIME: When can people go back to normal work?
Threatening: In medicine, there is already the idea of being tested free to go to work. If antigen tests were available, this could be extended to other occupational groups. And also, if we assume that ten or fifteen million people in Germany will be infected during the current wave of infection by autumn, then we will soon have very many people with antibodies. People who are immune. There will then be nurses and doctors working without masks. There will also be people in other professions who will say: I am through. And there will be more of them.
ONLINE TIME: How long are such people immune then?
Drosten: Once infected, he is probably immune to the rest of the pandemic, I would think, for a few yearYeah. And even if you catch it again, you get it as a harmless cold. The next infection won't be hard. At least I'd appreciate it now.
ONLINE TIME: How to find out who was already infected?
Threats: By doing large cross-sectional studies in the population. Once in summer, once in October. The best way to do that is with blood banks, where blood is collected and stored anyway. The goal must be to get a good estimate for each age group of how many people have already been through the infection and now have antibodies. This way you can find out if the 60 to 70 percent are already reached, which will probably get infected.
ONLINE TIME: And after the year and a half, we get rid of the virus?
Threatening: No, it will probably be the same as with the other Coronaviruses, which only cause colds. We'll have to live with them, but they won't be so dangerous to us if we survive the outbreak now.
ONLINE TIME: This all sounds like a huge challenge. Can we do this as a society?
Threatening: It will be a difficult time and there will be great economic losses, but yes: of course we will make it. We have to.
Previe