Madrid, 19 - Russian news agency, Elena czetnina. Compared with many other countries, Spain has a high mortality rate (according to the latest data) because it has one of the longest life expectancy countries in the world, Many of the patients - the elderly, in a conversation with a Russian News Agency reporter, doctor Andrei rubzov said he lives in Madrid and currently works in a nursing home.
This is a very complicated situation. In the elderly Center - in recent days, dozens of elderly people have died, only in the capital, Monte hermoso - about 20 people, in Erde de Tomelloso, The director of the centre, which is also ill at 12 leiar City, one of the Victorian centres in the Basque area), has killed eight people and the victims are in homes in other parts of Spain. Community authorities in Madrid have begun to inspect all homes for the elderly in the area, and the prosecutor's office has begun to investigate the situation.
At the amavir Pozuelo center, about 180 people work there. The first was found last week when a man was taken to hospital and the second confirmed Wednesday morning as a 90 year old woman. However, the infection rate is much higher, doctors are sure. There are also 10 patients with covid-19 symptoms. " Some of them are in a difficult situationAbout But we can't confirm the diagnosis because there's no test. It's not easy to do a test, it's expensive, its quantity is limited, we ask the Ministry of health to give us a final diagnosis. But it's loaded now, "Andre said.
He said many people in Spain are currently not diagnosed with coronavirus because they are unable to detect all people with mild symptoms. According to official figures on 19 March, more than 17000 cases have been confirmed. But the actual number is much higher. " In order for a person to do a test, he must have a clear symptom: fever, respiratory failure, but not all patients, And only those with weaker immunity - these are the elderly, with hepatitis, tuberculosis, HIV. But if this is a young person with symptoms, they won't do the test, "Andre explained.
At the home of the elderly, where he works, anyone who suspects coronavirus is in a separate room, and they don't go to public places, such as the canteen. Protective clothing for medical personnel - disposable work clothes, glasses, medical masks.
Relatives are forbidden to visit patients. Others can only access the closest - 20 minutes a day and one.
There are four doctors in the nursing homAbout Andre is convinced that the spread of the Colorado virus will intensify, but he believes that the strength of the medical staff is enough.
In his view, Spain has a high mortality rate compared with other countries, which may be due to its long life expectancy - 83, Four is the highest in the world. But, Andre said, it's up to statistics. The Ministry of health did not provide complete data. Only 33% of people over 65 know it, 18% know it, over 75. Three other patients under the age of 65 died.
According to the March 18 data, Italy has the highest mortality rate, 8%, Iran 6.5%, Spain 4.3%, China 4%, and other countries have lower mortality.
Rubuzov believes the situation in Spain could start to improve by the end of April. First, according to rubozov, "it's about the periodicity of any epidemic situation, and there will be more sunny days."
Doctors believe that the strict measures taken by the Spanish authorities have actually transferred the whole country to quarantine stations, which is the only thing that can be done. " It's better than doing nothing, or allowing large-scale events, where pollution is bound to spread. "
He believes that the media often make society hysterical. " All this is driven by the media. People are crazy about iAbout An increase in the number of patients, such as any viral infection. But it's not a goblin or a plague. It's not even the ordinary flu, causing more deaths. Of course, people should know what happened. But, on the other hand, it's a precedent, and there seems to be no reason not to take similar measures during a normal flu pandemic, "he said.
In general, health workers are much quieter about the virus than the average person - now in Spain, they are afraid to approach strangers. " We're not crazy about personal self-defense. An average citizen thinks that if he shakes hands and says hello, two weeks later, he will lie down in the street with the Colorado virus, living and rotting, just like in the period of leprosy or plague. And keep a meter away - that's the advice for any respiratory infection - doctors warn.
By the way, in Spain, unlike in China, people try not only to wear masks, but also gloves. However, when trying to protect his Spaniard, Andre thinks it's ineffective. " Everyone wore gloves, but they forgot to wear them. Let's imagine the situation: a person somehow touched the saliva of the patient, but did not take off his gloves, then touched his face with his hand, said hello, and pressed a button in the elevator. It's no use. Gloves only work. If you touch people who are infected, you throw them outAbout Masks, like gloves, are only needed when the patient is in contact. The usual medical mask doesn't work for more than an hour, it needs to be replaced. Many people just put it in their bags. They put it in every day. She looks like Andrea.
Why Italy, Spain and France are among the top three countries in Europe in terms of the transmission speed of Colorado virus can be explained as follows: When we meet in these countries, we usually kiss each other on the cheek. " The Spanish are used to a very close contact. I think after that, they will behave carefully, not hug and kiss all people, "the doctor suggested.
Spaniards, who have been quarantined in their apartments for several days, open their windows or balconies at 8 p.m. every night, In order to support the doctors, they were applauded all over the country. " nice to meet you. It's also a pleasure for the medical staff, and it's really enjoyable to see the community unite. "
An update on covid-19 in Russia and around the world can be found on the stakoronavirus website