Riga, March 8. /tass/ The second new case of coronavirus infection in a week was found in Latvia. The Ministry of health of the Republic informed the situation on Sunday.
Today, March 8, The second case of covid-19 was confirmed by the CDC's epidemic experts from the National Laboratory. In Latvia. The patient is at home and will be sent to the infection center soon, the authorities reported on twitter.
"In the past 24 days, 22 laboratory studies have been conducted on the suspected covid-19, one positive and the other negative. The Latvian centers for disease prevention and Control reported on its twitter Sunday that 222 analyses were conducted, two positive and the rest negative.
According to the local news agency, risk analysis at the Yuri Center for disease prevention and control and the citation of the director of infectious disease prevention department Peropochikova, the second patient, a woman with coronavirus, was infected with the virus from February 29 to March 7 at the chilvinia resort in Italy with a group of tourists. Latvian national airline's Milan Riga flight returned to Latvia with 39 passengers, 25 of whom were from LatviaAbout The centre has identified all passengers and crew members and ordered them to be monitored at home by a family doctor for two weeks.
The Ministry of health of Latvia reported on March 2 that the first new case of coronavirus had been found in the country. On 29 February, a Republican woman and her daughter, who returned to Riga from Milan via Munich with her family, were placed in an infection centre. The woman's symptoms were mild and the second examination did not confirm the presence of the disease, so she was discharged on March 3. Her daughter, coronavirus, was not diagnosed.
A new coronavirus disease broke out in Wuhan, China at the end of December 2019. The World Health Organization (who)) recognizes the epidemic, which has many local and international emergencies. Outside China, South Korea, Italy and Iran have the highest rates of infection. Cases of infection have been found in nearly 100 countries, including Russia. In China, the country with the highest incidence of the disease, more than 3000 people died. Death toll: 57000 According to the World Health Organization (who), in 2000, the number of people infected reached nearly 80700