Moscow, March 19. /tass/ " Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network - Russian new network Tass News Agency announced in the company information office that the company is ready to use its own resources for this purpose.
"In the next few weeks, we think an important task is to organize a large-scale preventive test for residents in Colorado. < we need to do more tests ourselves, To make testing at least take time and enable people to do it in a preventive and decentralized way, even directly at home. We support the initiative of the Russian direct investment fund. (c) Establish a coronavirus alliance to conduct multiple tests and large-scale tests in medical institutions. " -Tell the company.
They also said that jandex "is willing to help organize large-scale tests by using its information resources, including portal home pages and attachments, Establish necessary services and tools. For example, a company can participate in organizing volunteers and mobile medical teams, technology-based distributed logistics, For yandex serviceTaxi, "
"We believe that today, technology companies must invest and share their expertise. We stand ready to participate in all joint initiatives that can slow the spread of the virus and help people. Yandex "set up a working group to coordinate projects that help reduce the spread of the Colorado virus and write about it on covid@yandex-team.ru," the company explained.
Another it giant, mail. Ru group, which also joined the alliance, announced that it was ready to support the fight against Colorado as much as possible.
"The communication power of email is almost unlimited: our users are almost broken. We can make people know the real situation of coronavirus and know the preventive measures most effectively. Because of our transportation and food service, we can not only operate online, but also online. Now is a very important moment, unite our strength, Control the spread of the virus. Together, we can do more for the safety of Russians.
About Alliance
Russian direct investment foundation, Russian Federation of industry and commerce, Russian Federation of industry and commerce, yandex and so on MaiThe Ru group formed the anti Colorado virus alliance.
The Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Mikhail misudin, held a conference call with union representatives, including Timely testing of Russian residents in Colorado should be ensured. The main objective of the alliance is to ensure rapid population detection using the best available technology. As well as the industrial safety and uninterrupted work of major Russian enterprises. Russia's main network of clinics and laboratories will also be involved in the project.
About virus
A new outbreak of coronavirus has occurred in Central China. Later, it spread to more than 140 countries and was recognized by the World Health Organization. According to the latest data, more than 210000 people around the world are infected with AIDS. Nearly 85 million people are reported dead in China. Page: 1 199 cases have been registered in Russia. In order to inform Russia of the situation, the government has launched stogroneviros resources of the Russian Federation.
