In the fight against coronaveros, the time for Disease Control in the United States has passed. The infection has penetrated our country and is now testing the health system in the United States. The authorities are openly optimistic, but privately, many experts doubt that the United States is ready for the challenge.
At the same time, America's claim to global leadership has also been tested. It is clear that the threat of this pandemic is that the selfishness of the state must be forgotten for the sake of the common good. Washington has called for at least no harm to Iran and North Korea if it does not help. It is not clear whether he will accept the appeal, but it is clear that they have made a sound of reason.
Say hello with your elbow
In the United States, official data showed 712 cases and 27 deaths as of Tuesday. But on Wednesday, Atlantic magazine warned: "official statistics are very low, everyone knows." According to the magazine, the problem lies in the evaluation method, first of all, the sample testers.
At present, it is believed that the infection known as covid-19 has spread to 35 of the 50 states in the United States and the Capital District of ColumbiaAbout This has raised serious concerns, particularly among US lawmakers, with a large proportion of older men. In addition, they often participate in community activities and shake hands with each other. Although in Washington, D.C., so-called social distance has become a pattern, including using elbows instead of contact.
At the end of February, many leading Republican politicians in the United States attended the traditional annual meeting of the conservative political action committee. Later, it was found that one of the guests at the event was infected with coronavirus. Moreover, according to the political daily, he is a very sociable person with access to almost all places, including the conference room, where participants wait for their turn to speak.
So now some of the other guests, including Senator Ted Cruz and at least five members of Congress, have announced that they will take preventive measures to segregate their families. These include the transition from Congress to White House chief of staff mark meadows and at least one lawmaker, Recent personal contacts with the chairman of the open ended Working GrouAbout
Some members of Congress have passed the coronavirus screening just in case, although according to them, no one has any symptoms. It is understood that although both spoke to the Conservatives in the same forum, neither the tram party nor its vice president, Michael burns, was subject to such scrutiny. According to the White House, they did not talk to infected people there.
Neurosis
In the past, trump has repeatedly called himself a Hermione terrorist, that is, a terrorist. A man in bacterial fear. But now he says he won't give up his usual handshake.
Critics think he is confused. For example, the New York Times ran a large article to the effect that he didn't know how to deal with the virus of an invisible killer. The leadership comfort role has made it difficult for him to find a balance between confident confidence and naive hat, "said the president's rival newspaper.
By the way, Washington Examiner, an online version of a cute white house boss, criticizes him for his lack of persuasive surface optimism. The title of the drafting commentary on this topic is "in order to prevent the panic caused by coronavirus, it is possible for French marine reserves to intensify this panic"About
We can recall that at the beginning, American leaders expressed their belief that with the warm weather, the spread of infection will inevitably disappear. He claimed that the threat of the epidemic was deliberately provoked by his political opponents. But when trump publicly called it the opposition's next scam, it met with such a strong and unanimous opposition that he no longer repeated that definition.
On the whole, the tension between American politicians is growing. Liz Chanet, the daughter of Congressman and former Vice President Richard Chanet, refused to attend the important retreat, Managed by the house of representatives to avoid particularly vulnerable "family members". One of her Democratic colleagues completely closed her capital office and went home to quarantine after she was found in a photo with the virus carrier on the c-pac forum.
The threat of this century?
The assessment of the US health authorities is inconsistent. They don't seem to have found a balance. On the one hand, of course, they can't underestimate the threat. On the other hand, they obviously want to emphasize that the devil is not as terrible as people portrayAbout
As a result, the main relevant national agency, the Centers for Disease Control（ "The virus is likely to cause a pandemic." However, he noted, "for most people, the direct risk of exposure to the virus is low.". Jerome Adams, chief surgeon of the United States, stressed that for children and young people, covid-19 "is not as lethal as flu.".
In this case, U.S. health authorities continue to call on healthy people not to wear masks. Although the mention of the virus is in vain, it is not very logical. If so, why keep the mask for the medical staff and staff who care for the patient?  
The dual position of the authorities forces us to seek external assessments. Bill Gates, one of the richest people in the world, is a leading American philanthropist in the field of medicine The UK points out that the new corona rose has begun to behave quite similar to the once-in-a-century pathogens we are worried about. "
"I hope it's not that bad, but before proving the opposite, we have to start from that, that is, we have to start from that." At worst, he stresseAbout Gates reported that his family philanthropy foundation is ready to spend $100 million to fight covid-19. He noted that a large part of these funds would be used to provide substantive assistance to poor countries. Because they are often the first pillar in identifying and responding to the threat of a common epidemic.
Kurt Campbell, former assistant secretary of state for Asian affairs, and Thomas Wright, a political scientist at the Brooklyn Institute in Washington, D.C., also believe that covid-19 could be a century old threat. " "One of the most serious peace crises in modern history." Together with the heinous terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September 2001 and the financial collapse of 2008, they warned that the consequences of the crisis could be worse. "
Another example is that they put the issue primarily in a political context and proved it to be a nationalistic border as a public management approach. " Experience is important, institutions are important, the author wrote. This is a matter for the international community. An open answer, even if it's not welcome, makes sense. The system must be re run. "
I'm not the king. "
The sharpness of this criticism is aimed at the springboard and its main slogan: "make America great again"About In general, in the context of the discussion of the impending dangers of the United States, a typical question is now being asked more and more often - who is the culprit?
The most common answer can also be considered classic: Of course, it's easiest to prove the bureaucracy of the past. "
Lisa Monaco, a former adviser to former Democratic President Barack Obama on national security and counter-terrorism, proudly reports in a few days' Foreign Affairs magazine, In January 2017, he personally held a simulation exercise for the new springboard team to cope with a global pandemic caused by a new virus, U.S. Defense Forces (i.e. the U.S. defense forces, which replace their subordinates on the National Security Council). The significance of reminders is understandable: we all foresee in advance that the necessary plans and structures have been established, rather than our mistakes, if they are not used.
In general, springboard now has many people complaining that it has dismantled the anti epidemic device built under its predecessor, which not only includes the subordinate units of the National Security Bureau, But the Department of homeland security. As early as late January, the Journal of foreign policy wrote this article, accusing the current president of "destroying his country and setting him as an example to Obama, "Ronald Klein, former chief of staff of Vice President Joseph Biden.About
Another thing is that the back of the head is still robust, and the effect of past measures is questionable. Klein himself said at the Aspen Institute meeting in Washington in February that despite his resounding title, he had no real impact. My experience is "King Ebola"（ "In the vast majority of cases, I'm not the king because we don't have a health command system in the United States," he said
There is no vertical. "
In fact, experts generally agree that the health care structure in the United States has been and remains fragmented. There is no real "vertical authority" that can ensure a coordinated response across the country to the threat of the epidemic. Yes, what is the administrative vertical line: there is no right to sick leave in federal law, so there are some mistakes in Congress.
In general, system defects. The most obvious and poignant evidence is that 27.5 million Americans lack health insurance), which is 8.5% of the population. In the 2011 postmark, the index rose again. He has been declining for several years since he passed the Obama health plan act in 2010. About
The question is understandable: if uninsured people start to get sick, who will pay for their treatment? The hospital warned in advance that it would be devastating for them and could lead to bankruptcy. In 2007, the Journal of health finance published a study. According to this view, if there is another disaster like the 1918 influenza Spanish pandemic, US medical institutions will suffer 3.9 billion US dollars in losses. Hospitals with an average of $784592.
By the way, tramp recently said it was news that he might have died of flu. Although his grandfather died in 1918 in the same Spanish woman's father, Friedrich Trapp.
Economic background of elections
There is also a classic question, what should we do? "They tried to drown the fire with money," the American replied in a familiar way The White House initially called for a $2.5 billion crackdown on covid-19, and lawmakers were afraid to allocate $8.3 billion. " "Well, I think that," said trump, who signed the bill last Friday with more than 100000 patients worldwide. Human beings.
For the White House and its owners, the economy is number oneAbout "A key publication that the U.S. presidential information service has been focusing on in recent days is CNBC television, Moreover, under the threat of Colorado, "employment growth in the country continues to exceed expectations," and the unemployment rate fell again to 3.5% in February. The emphasis on this theme is understandable: as far as the Preparatory Committee is concerned, it is directly related to the prospects for the re-election of the president in November.
Plans developed within the framework of the fight against covid-19 fall within the same objective. Most importantly, the banking Union has urged the Federal Reserve System to continue to loosen monetary policy to stimulate the country's economic growth.
Among the government's stimulus measures, according to news reports, the president gave priority to tax cuts. In his view, these measures should include payroll taxes and come into force by the end of the year, at least before elections.
However, these plans have not been completed. As we all know, American lawmakers have not supported this idea in the past. Now the opposition in Congress is pushing its agendAbout According to politico, "Democrats are preparing legislation that will provide free Colorado virus testing and strengthen unemployment insurance, "During the break, students who receive free food at school can continue to receive it and take paid sick leave."
Switch
When it comes to covid-19, U.S. analysts and the press often try to move the perpetrators to China where the outbreak occurred. For example, a commentary in the Journal of national interests recently said: "chaos created in China can be avoided." At the same time, there are also attempts to denigrate the World Health Organization, which is said to have facilitated Beijing and highly appreciates its efforts to fight AIDS.
But the response to such attacks is clear. Now, let's see whose system is better at responding to threats. China, who can buy it in Wuhan City, greatly exceeds the population of New York City - or the United States.
As long as the latter's action, at least, does not affect the imagination. Bloomberg introduced an incident at the University of California Medical Center, Transporting an infected patient there forced more than 120 staff members to quarantinAbout The National Union of nurses and nurses (the National Union of nurses and nurses) saw the incident as a systematic failure.
Just today, Atlantis published an article saying, "the failed Colorado virus test in the United States." According to its exclusive source, the magazine claims that so far, only 1895 people have been tested domestically. " In the case of C [virus], H1N1 and Zika CDC performed well and distributed a large number of test packages to the whole country, -Thomas Frieden, former director of the Centers for disease control, told the magazine. "I don't know what's wrong this time."
Desperate
Generally speaking, experts and many observers understand that the US authorities should always reflect on themselves before trying to blame others. We'd better not put the blame on others, but try to cooperate internationally with all people without exception.
This is Bill Gates' call, this is his article in Campbell and Wright, Atlantis. "Should help the enemy" - experts stressed. -To this end, the United States and other countries can consider temporarily suspending certain sanctions against vulnerable countries such as Iran and North Korea, Control the virus if necessary. "
I asked my friends in the Ministry of foreign affairs if they had done any concrete work in this regard. The answer I heard was, "not yet.