In the case of entertainment electronics, the new Coronavirus is estimated to present some bottlenecks and possibly also price increases.
The reason is the extended factory holidays and production losses in China, said the head of the Industrial Association gfu, Hans-Joachim Kamp. One thing is clear: the Coronavirus will have repercussions. "This can be seen in the supply chain," he stressed. Many suppliers were affected at least by individual components.
The bottlenecks would be noticed at different speeds depending on the product category, due to the delivery routes. Larger technology such as television comes mostly by ship from China. This takes about five weeks, and the equipment that was built before the Coronavirus turbulence started is still on the move. For smartphones that are often transported by plane, the bottlenecks are more noticeable.
"One or other" merchant could use the shortage to sell more expensive goods in the declining price business, said Kamp of the German Press Agency.
The Coronavirus effects did not allow a serious forecast of turnover for the current year in the entertainment electronics business, Kamp said. At the same time, however, he expects an accumulated demand that will be relieved later. "We have a market characterized by high replacement purchases. In other words, if Coronavirus has ever survived, these replacement purchases will be made."Surveys showed that consumers are still willing to buy.
At the same time, Kamp does not believe in the significant positive effects of the Coronavirus crisis on its industry, for example when more companies take video conferences instead of business trips. Because the necessary equipment was finally there, he argueYeah.
Last year, sales of consumer electronics in Germany decreased by 1,5 percent to 27,7 billion euros, as reported by the GOI on Monday. At the same time, the sales of televisions dropped by 4,7 per cent to around 6,5 million appliances. The average price fell from 600 to 572 euro. "Ultimately, we are living off the fact that we have growth in increasingly large equipment," said Kamp. Especially for large televisions with OLED displays, prices remain stable.
The sale of Blu-ray players fell 2019 by about a quarter on 666 000 devices, and the sale of home cinema facilities halved to 31 000. On the other hand, headphones were a growing business with a 15-percent plus 14,5 million devices. (dpa