Moscow, 16 March / Sputnik radio. The Russian news agency reported that in the Russian government, Minsk's response to the closure of the border with Belarus, as well as the reasons for this measure, was a little confused.
On Monday, the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Mikhail misudin, announced that Russia had closed its border with Belarus to allow more people to be displaced by coronavirus infection.
In turn, Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko said that the state would not block its borders, otherwise, before arriving at the Kremlin, caravans would line up and people would be angry. "
"On the whole, however, it is puzzling that in the context of the electoral cycle, the leaders of Belarus have made similar statements, "No coordinated measures have been promoted to jointly curb the spread of coronal infection," the Russian government said in a statement
It was noted that Mikhail misudin informed his Belarusian colleague Sergei rumas of the planned action in a telephone conversation the day before. However, due to coronavirus, rumas did not object to michustin in the preliminary discussion of the planned measures.
The government stressed that the temporary restrictions on access to Russia, including from Belarus, were adopted on the recommendation of who and were objectiveAbout It is reported that these regulations do not apply to diplomats, truck drivers, aircraft and ship crew, train crew, or people who go to funerals or live in Russia for a long time. In the government.
Chinese authorities informed the World Health Organization on December 31, 2019 that an unknown outbreak of pneumonia occurred in Wuhan City (Hubei Province) in Central China. Experts found that the new coronavirus had become the pathogen of the disease, which was later officially known as covid-19.
Earlier, radio Sputnik reported that ZELINSKY ordered the closure of the subway, airlines and Russian Railways in the country.
Sputnik is the most impressive station in Russia. We're at telegram and jandex