It is becoming increasingly clear in Germany too: Sars-CoV-2 can no longer be stopped. What is known about the virus and the Covid-19 disease it causes?
How far will Sars-CoV-2 spread in Germany?
"Further cases, infection chains and outbreaks in Germany must be anticipated," says Robert Koch-Institut (RKI) in Berlin. Since there is no immunity against a new pathogen in the population at first, a wave of spread can capture large parts of it. For Germany, the Berlin virologist Christian Drosten expects a high total infection rate. "They will probably get 60 to 70 percent, but we do not know in what time," he said. "This can take two years or even longer."
What does the epidemic mean for the health system and society?
This depends crucially on one factor: the rate of spread. The better it manages to keep the infection rate down, the less pressure on the medical system and society will be, Drosten says. The problem is that infections occur especially when compressed in a short time. Then full waiting areas and medical practices threaten, occupied intensive beds and completely overloaded health services. Many workers would be absent, and schools, institutes and other institutions could also face problems due to sick staff. According to the estimates presented by the British Government, there could be any fifth of the workforce lost in the high-phase as the wave of disease progresses.
How contagious is the new Coronavirus?
A value that many other people infect an infected person in the medium cannot yet be stated with certainty. It is currently the most difficult factor to estimate, says ThreatYeah. There are indications that an infected person is infecting three more people on average, but this value is very uncertain. An epidemic is stopped if an infected person infects less than one other person on average.
The virus multiplies in the throat and spreads mainly through droplets such as coughing and speaking. "They may fly one and a half meters and fall to the ground relatively quickly," Drosten explains. "It is the inhalation of such a cloud that infects you in most cases." Only in contact situations is there a real risk, for example if you have talked to an infected person for about a quarter of an hour or longer.
The incubation period, the period between infection and onset of symptoms, is usually two to 14 days at the current stage. That's the reason we isolate suspect cases for two weeks.
How dangerous is the virus?
Most people have only mild cold symptoms with frostbite and sore throat or no symptoms at all. In addition, fever and cough can occur, as they do with a flu. Headaches or diarrhoea are also possible.
Approximately 15 of 100 infected patients are seriously ill, as the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) called it. You'll get respiratory distress or pneumonia. Most people at risk, such as cancer patients in chemotherapy, elderly people and those with pre-existing diseases such as cardiovascular disease or diabetic organ damage, are affected.
Fatalities such as respiratory arrest, septic shock or multi-organ failure are rare. According to current data, the Covid-19 death rate is approximately 0.3 to 0.7 per cent, Drosten says. This means that from 1000 infected 3 to 7 die. The actual rate is probably even loweYeah.
An analysis in China recently showed that around two to three percent of those infected with Sars-CoV-2 die in the country. Experts assume that this estimate is too high because many mild infections have not been included in the statistics. According to the same analysis, the death rate in people over 80's is close to fifteen per cent, so in this age group in China, according to current statistics, about 15 out of 100 infected people are dying. In the group of ten to 39-year-old people there are 0,2 percent of the infected, i.e. about two percent of 1000 affected.
How can the new lung disease be treated?
There is no special treatment for Covid-19 disease. Severely ill patients are treated symptomatically: with fever-reducing agents, the treatment of possible additional bacterial infections and sometimes mechanical ventilation. Antiviral medicines are also tested in individual cases.
Is there a protective vaccine?
Nope. Several laboratories worldwide are currently researching vaccines such as those for influenza. However, the development of protective vaccination takes a long time. Soumya Swaminathan, a leading scientist at the World Health Organisation (WHO), believes that a certified vaccine for widespread use is unlikely to be available for use in 18 months.
According to Health Minister Alex Azar, the FDA gave the go-ahead for the first clinical trials of a potential vaccine against the new Coronavirus. The director of the National Institute for Infectious Diseases, Anthony Fauci, stressed that this would not change the current schedule for a possible vaccine. "The whole process will take at least one or a half year"
How can I currently protect myself from infection?
To protect against this virus as well as other viruses, experts recommend common hygiene measures: regular hand washing, disinfectants and distance to the sick. Experts estimate the benefits of normal breathing masks to be rather low. It can help to limit hugs and hand shakes and not touch surfaces touched by many people such as doorknobs, handles and elevator buttons.
During a stay in public spaces one should avoid touching the nasal mucous membranes and rubbing the eyes, said Graifswald hygienist Gunter Kampf. "The virus wants to get into the airway." When you get home you should wash your hands thoroughly first.
Can I get infected if I get a package from China or other risk areas?
In principle, the WHO says it is unclear how long the virus will survive on surfaces. Studies suggested that it would be a few hours or days depending on conditions such as surface, temperature or humidity. The probability that an infected product contaminates with the virus is considered low by the Authority. The risk that a recipient might become infected by a package exposed to different conditions and temperatures during transport was also low. The Federal Institute for Risk Assessment (BfR) also says that imported foods and goods such as toys, computers or clothing are unlikely to be sources of infection.
Can my pet transmit the virus?
According to an expert, there is little risk of transmission by pets. A case reported in South Korea in which Sars-CoV-2 was reported to have been detected in a dog was not confirmed in scientific literature, said Albert Osterhaus, a virologist at Hannover Veterinary CollegeYeah. It cannot be completely ruled out, but it is unlikely that this can play a role in the transmission to humans, if at all, via the skin and the fur.
What do I do if I'm afraid I'm infected?
Do not go directly to a practice or emergency room. If you have symptoms and are afraid of Covid-19, for example because of contact with an infected person, you should first contact your doctor or health department by phone. "Because if you really should be sick of it, then you don't necessarily have to put it in a fully-occupied waiting room with already weakened immune systems," explains the German Association of Physicians, Christian Schmuck. In several federal states, there is currently consideration of setting up special centres as a point of contact for possible Sars-CoV infected. At the Berlin Charter, for example, such a separate investigation centre for suspected cases is already in operation.
What can the state do in an emergency?
The main regulation is the National Infection Protection Act (IfSG). A spokesman for the Bavarian Ministry of Health summarises: "If necessary, important fundamental rights such as the freedom of the person can also be According to the Bavarian State Attorney Stephan Rixen, authorities may require blood and skin and mucous membranes to be removed. "Suspects of illness" and "Suspects of infection", as the law expresses, could also be subject to a professional prohibition. For the protection of others, people could also be "isolated in a suitable hospital or otherwise in a suitable way", the law states.
Will the situation change in the spring?
The flu and other cold diseases have the main season in winteYeah. Also with Sars-CoV-2, there is the hope that the epidemic may flare up in the warmer months, at least temporarily. Helpful effects, according to threats, are "the warmth of summer, UV rays and the fact that people are out more and less able to infect each other". In the second half of the year, however, we in Europe would have to be prepared for it to get colder again and for this additional effect to disappear. (dpa