Moscow, May 21 In 24 hours, 53 new cases of coronavirus infection were reported in Russia, according to the Russian Ministry of disease control and action.
As a result, the incidence rose to 306.
New cases were found in 18 regions: 17 in the outskirts of Moscow, 6 in Moscow, 5 in Tatarstan, 4 in Nizhny Novgorod, 3 in Sverdlovsk, 2 in Tula and Kaliningrad In St. Petersburg, as well as the kabalda balkar and Krasnodar border areas.
One case occurred in liangzan, Kurgan, Chelyabinsk, Stavropol, Krasnoyarsk, Khabarovsk border region, Crimea autonomous region and hant Mansi autonomous region.
All the patients were hospitalized for infectious disease boxing. In the past two weeks, it has been established that they have visited those disadvantaged countries. Now we find out who is the patient to contact in order to get these people under medical supervision.
During this period, 16 convalescents - 13 Russians, two Chinese and an Italian citizen - were discharged.
The World Health Organization announced on March 11 that the infectious disease of covid-19 is a serious epidemic that may spread all over the world. According to the latest data from the World Health Organization, more than 266000 people have been infected, most of them in Europe. Nearly 11000 people diedAbout
In recent weeks, the situation in Italy, Iran, South Korea, France, Spain and Germany has been the most dangerous. China is also a source of the virus, but local authorities have announced that the country has overcome the peak of the epidemic.
Governments have taken urgent measures to control the disease and established a system of high alert or emergency. For example, the European Union announced the closure of its external borders for 30 days.
Russia has also blocked its borders with Belarus, Poland and Norway, and suspended air and rail transport with China, South Korea, Iran, EU countries, the United States and the United Kingdom, Finland, Ukraine and others. From 18 March to 1 may, the entry of foreigners and stateless persons was restricted.
An update on covid-19 in Russia and around the world can be found on the stakoronavirus website