Moscow, 23 Russian news agency. Russian Prime Minister Mikhail mishushin announced at a meeting with cabinet members that 71 more patients with coronavirus had been registered in Russia within one day and night, with a total of 438 patients.
At the headquarters of the operation against covid-19, it was clarified that all new cases of infection had been found in Moscow and that in the past two weeks, patients had been in the country; This is a poor epidemiological situation. The men were taken to hospital and placed in a special ring where they would be examined after contact.
The total number of Russian patients from covid-19 is 438, 262 of whom have recovered in the capital, 17 have recovered and about 52000 are undergoing treatment.
Mishudin asked the elderly Russians to stay at home and not go outside.
In addition, the prime minister appointed the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Reserve Commission and the Russian health supervision agency to monitor the import and export and domestic demand for food, The Ministry of economic development shall propose supplementary import measures before March 26 to support the operation of small and medium-sized enterprises, It is the responsibility of the Ministry of labor and the Ministry of justice to ensure that unreasonable dismissal does not occur and to investigate the wage arrears in covid-19About
The World Health Organization announced a new outbreak of coronavirus infection on March 11, and the first outbreak of coronavirus occurred in China at the end of last year.
According to Johns Hopkins University, covid-19 is affected by more than 160 countries, with 339000 people infected, 14717 dead and 99000 treated worldwide. The death toll is in Italy for the first time), with 5400 already dead, followed by China, Spain, Iran and France.
According to the World Health Organization, 292000 people fell ill and 127000 died.
World leaders are taking urgent measures to control the spread of the virus, establish a state of emergency or emergency, and close the walls of cities and the country as a whole.
The Russian government has suspended flights to all countries since March 23, except for flights from Moscow to other capitals and charter contracts for Russian citizens. In addition, foreigners and stateless persons are not allowed to enter before May 1. A high alert system is implemented throughout Russia.
An update on covid-19 in Russia and around the world can be found on the stakoronavirus website