The record hunt, which had driven the German leading index to 13.795 points at the start of the week, has stopped for the time being. The Dax closed 0,75 percent lower to 13.681,19 points.
The rise to almost 13.800 points was expected to be followed by smaller gains, writes the chart tech experts of Index Radar. Ultimately, however, the Dax remained stable in view of the rallies of the past few days, supplemented market analyst Jochen Stanzl from CMC Markets. It is currently noticeable that investors differentiated and stocks with high demand dependency from China remained on track. The rest of them, however, stayed awake.
The MDax lost 0.88 percent on Tuesday to 29 057,80 points. The EuroStoxx 50, the leading index of the eurozone, dropped by 0.43 percent to 3836,54 counters. Losses were also recorded in Paris and London. In the United States, the Dow Jones Industrial, after a prolonged weekend, yielded to the European trade conclusion by 1.0 percent. However, the technologically resilient Nasdaq stock exchanges held up slightly better with less than 0.5 percent.
As the technology giant Apple announced on Monday aftermarket, due to the Coronavirus epidemic in China, he will miss only a few weeks old sales forecast for the current quarter. On iPhones, there were supply bottlenecks in China, and the sale of Apple devices was also weak there, it was said.
The Coronavirus also left traces in the economic forecasts of German financial experts. These were surprisingly clear, as the indicator of the Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW) showed. However, the ZEW index did not exert any additional pressure on the Dax on Tuesday.
Technology values suffered particularly, especially Apple suppliers such as Infineon with less than 2,2 percent or Dialogue Semiconductor with less than 4,5 percenYeah. Analyst Sandeep Deshpande of JPMorgan spoke of the "first warning from a heavy tech group about the Coronavirus epidemic". He now considers it likely that companies from Apple's supply chain and pre-requisite chip manufacturers will follow with more careful forecasts.
The papers of the German Stock Exchange, which according to analysts had announced "solid annual figures" on the eve, concluded almost unchanged. 2019 had booked a record profit. In contrast, statements by HeidelbergCement last year and this year did not go well with investors: the shares of the construction material manufacturer lost at the end of the Dax 3,0 percent.
At the top of the guide index, RWE's papers increased by 1.6 percent and continued their rallies over the past few weeks. This was partly due to the renewed risk-aversion of investors. Then the so-called defence industries, such as the supply or real estate industries, which are less dependent on the economy, benefit.
Thyssenkrupp's papers spread their three percent loss from the beginning of the week in the MDax and yielded five percent. Although it may not have been surprising that the industrial group sells the elevator part to financial investors, a complete sale or even the sale of a large part of this section meant the resignation of a profitable Baader bank analyst Christian Fruit.
On the pension market, the circulation rate of less than 0.40 per cent decreased to less than 0.42 per cent the day before. The Rex pension index increased by 0,10 percent to 144,91 points. The Federal Future added 0.09 percent to 174,53 points.
The euro temporarily dropped below 1.08 US dollars and was traded in the early evening with 10814 dollars. The European Central Bank fixed the reference rate to 10816 (Monday: 10835) dollars. The dollar thus cost 09246 (09229) euro. (dpa