Declaring war an invisible enemy, the new coronal airline, At the same time, the United States participated in a large-scale battle on another front with China, a more obvious and long-term opponent. In recent days, there has been a real information war between them, and the Donald Trump administration is not going to retreat.
The struggle for world political influence seems to have started when China spread covid-19, and it will inevitably fail. But the success so far has not been in the US government, but in China. American experts, by the way, acknowledge this.
G. Reporting and calculation errors
"Beijing is rapidly adapting to the changing environment, taking advantage of the mistakes of the United States and its position as the world leader in the fight against the epidemic." Former assistant secretary of state for East Asia and the Pacific, Kurt Campbell, and director of the Brookings rush Dorsey Washington Institute. They noted that the Chinese authorities "are showing off their systems, providing material assistance to foreign countries and even helping other governments adjust their work.About
The United States, without consulting its European allies, has closed its borders, while Italy cannot wait for aid from its closest EU neighbour, China has allocated 10 million yuan to transport weapons abroad. The aim of the plan is to improve the status of women throughout the country. Table 4 Corona tester. Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba business Internet, promised $100000 to each of the 54 African countries. (thousands of US dollars) Similar assistance has also been provided to the United States. On the face of it, the proposal appears to be degrading for the wealthy United States, but there is also a clear lack of medical equipment and materials to combat the epidemic.
All of this is not only to "maintain system stability" of domestic consumption, but also part of the global competition between China and the United States. Campbell and Doshi believe that this may be exacerbated by the outbreak of coronavirus and the recession of the world economy. Their article, published in the latest issue of foreign affairs, is entitled "the possibility of a change in the world order by coronaveros".
At the end of the day, of course, it will depend on how countries succeed in fighting the epidemic. There is still a long way to go for China to fully normalize its life, but the authorities have announced the cancellation of the two-month quarantine in Hubei ProvinceAbout It was no accident before the emergency meeting of G20 leaders on March 26. Beijing clearly wants the world to know its initial success in fighting covid-19, and hopes that the mistakes along the way will be forgotten as soon as possible.
Dangerous speech games
Obviously, China's hype, coupled with its own mistakes, has caused unease in the White House. This week, the National Security Council issued a notice to other agencies, including the State Department and the Pentagon, CNN reported, Suggestions on information confrontation in China. The main purpose of the document is to expose the fact that Beijing is trying to cover up the spread of covid-19. Washington claimed that the Chinese authorities had concealed the scale of the infection from the beginning, failed to inform who and failed to let foreign experts into Wuhan, This prevents other countries from taking timely protective measures.
"It would have been better if they had told us what happened there before." And we didn't know that until the leak. About A photo taken by a photographer at the meeting shows the draft text of the president's opening remarks, His hand was modified at the last minute: the first part of "coronavirus" was deleted, not the Chinese virus Reporters at the White House confirmed not only the handwriting of the springboard, but also the handwriting he used.
Critics of the president call this an insulting racist statement. " However, people from the trampoline's external political team use similar words. So Secretary of state Michael Pompeii said, "Wuhan virus, And national security assistant Robert O'Brien and his deputy Matthew Porter are talking about the Chinese trying to cover up the outbreak in Hubei Province. " Pottinger, who used to work as a reporter for the Wall Street Journal in Beijing, where he was hurt by local authorities, is now considered almost a major figure in China in the White House.
Bad cop, good cop.
The exchange of letters between Beijing and Washington over the Colorado virus led to the expulsion of journalists from three major US newspapers, the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal and the Washington Post. Chinese authorities have announced that this is because Americans have reduced the number of Chinese media staff in the United StateAbout "On the part of the Chinese people's Liberation Army, the real understanding of China around the world will be smaller now.".
Washington has other grievances, too. In his view, the Chinese leaders deliberately did not mention that China received 18 tons of medical aid from the United States, which was transported to China by the same plane. Withdrawal of US citizens. An official spokesman of the Chinese Foreign Ministry said that in the election of the Russian news agency in Wuhan in October 2019, there might be Americans sent to Wuhan by the Russian news agency World military games China's ambassador to Washington was called back to the State Department, but the dispute between the two countries gradually became like a child's Sandbox dispute. He was the first to start. "
"It is clear that there is a fierce information and economic war between the two countries," said Stephen Bannon, a former presidential adviser, They are considered supporters of China's toughest approach. In his view, the actions of the Chinese government are dangerous to the Chinese people and the world. " Such comments may be ignored, but Bannon said, on behalf of many senior government officials who have long advocated strengthening the springboard. The confrontation with Beijing, "the New York Times pointed outAbout
But not everyone agrees. According to newspaper reports, Steven mnuchin, the Treasury Secretary, and Lawrence Kudrow, the chairman of the National Economic Commission of the general office of the president of the United States, are trying to prevent the deterioration of relations with China, Recognize that the two countries must work together to solve many problems, including the implementation of multi billion dollar trade agreements.
Moreover, with regard to the formulation of "Chinese virus", some experts in the United States have made clear objections. Anthony fauchi, director of the National Institute of allergy and infectious diseases, was included in the Colorado virus task force by the president We should use a similar definition. According to the Bloomberg agency report, the opinion of an authoritative expert has even strained his relationship with the open ended Working Group. Generally speaking, the tone of dialogue with China is set by the president. There are some differences in language between him and the people around him, more like the situation of two policemen, one is bad. Very good.
"Coronaveros could do more harm to us China relations than trade wars, technology threats and President twitter." Experts are concerned that the current information war will prevent Washington and Beijing from coordinating their actions against covid-19About
[when the Beijing protests broke out in 1989, Sino US relations were at the lowest point since the Tiananmen Square incident] When the two countries need to work together to limit the damage the epidemic has done to public health, economic activity and financial markets, he noted. Professor Eswar Prasad, Cornell University. What's happening between Washington and Beijing at the moment seems disappointing, he said
At the same time, Ryan Hass, a Prasad colleague from the Brooklyn Institute, who is the adviser of Barack Obama's administration to the NSA on China, In the past crisis, the United States and China have been able to overcome their differences and reach consensus. Given the unpredictability of the U.S. government at present, experts can't say they can do it now, but I believe it's worth trying.
Ivan Lebede