The new Coronavirus threatens the German economy massively. The industry expects a "stress test" and fears "noticeable negative effects". Stocks are slipping into the basement.
In an already weakened economic situation in Germany, lung disease threatens to become a "real economic inhibitor", warns the Chamber of Industry and Commerce on Thursday. Already now, the internationally strongly networked German export industry is feeling that the Coronavirus is burdening global trade and companies have been holding back their investment projects in many locations.
Federal Minister of Economy Peter Altmaier (CDU) did not rule out that the Coronavirus could have "foreseeable effects" on the previous growth forecasts.
"The spread of the Coronavirus will significantly affect the German economy this year," said DIHK chief of foreign economics Volker Treier. "Production failures at Chinese and German companies in China, massive travel restrictions and trade breaks between China and Asian neighboring countries, as well as demand failures in tourism and retail are likely scenarios that can affect the economy also in Germany and Europe."
Altmeier said the Ministry of Economic Affairs was determined to act calmly and calmly. He does not expect large-scale supply bottlenecks. However, uncertainty in the economy had increased. Altmaier envisioned a counter-tax from the Federal Government in the event of a massive expansion of the Coronavirus affecting the economy.
German and other foreign companies operating in China are already struggling. The German and European Chambers of Commerce in China concluded that the overall impact is bad following a survey among member companies. Almost 90-percent reported "moderate to severe effects" due to lung diseasYeah. "Everyone is affected," says the chairman of the German Chamber of Commerce in North China, Stephan Wollenstein, in Beijing.
Each second company would have to correct the business objectives for the year. Thus, almost half of the companies expect a two-digit percentage drop in revenue in the first half of the year. A quarter even expects more than 20 percent decline. A good third already have problems with their finances today. "People do not make money by selling something, but have to pay rent and wages at the same time," said Wollenstein.
It is precisely small and medium-sized enterprises that are suffering from lung disease. "Some of them already have to fight to hold on," said the head of the European Chamber of Commerce, Jurg Wuttke. The crisis could last longer than expected, as the head of the expert commission of the Chinese government, Zhong Nanshan, said. He expects the epidemic in China to be "largely under control by the end of April".
Unfortunately, the virus is still spreading in Europe. The fear is that, as in Beijing, the international car fair will now be cancelled in Geneva, for example, in April. The otherwise travelled Germans are uncertain, hesitating with their holiday plans. "The longer the crisis persists, the more the travel industry will be affected," said Norbert Fiebig, president of the DRV branch association in Frankfurt.
"The uncertainty about the effects of the virus is great," said BDI chief manager Joachim Lang in Berlin. China is the largest German trading partner. Now, economic crisis management by the federal government is also required. "The effects of the virus are clearly visible in the global economy and the export-oriented German industry." The Chinese companies worked under pressure to reduce dependencies and minimise concentration risksYeah.
The immediate challenges for companies in China are, first of all, unpredictable regulations, quarantine requirements and extensive conditions for restarting operations after the extended break since the Chinese New Year's Festival. "The patchwork of conflicting regulations that the fight against Covid-19 has produced hundreds of different areas of power that make it almost impossible to move goods or people in China," said EU Chamber President Wuttke.
"China is facing a delicate balancing act with two important but divergent objectives: to rigorously maintain measures to prevent the virus while fighting for a return to economic normality," said contraart Wollenstein. China's government should support particularly small and medium-sized enterprises until business returns to normal.
More than half of the companies are complaining of a contraction in demand. "The market stalled," said Wollenstein. For example, according to the Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA), the car market in China decreased by 20 percent in January compared to the previous month. This is also due to the fact that there were fewer sales days due to the New Year's Eve, said VDA President Hildegard Muller.
Moreover, according to Wollenstein, due to the interruption of logistics delivery deadlines could not be met (47 percent). Many companies lack staff (47 per cent). Production is also delayed due to lack of deliveries (45 percent). Due to the uncertainties, business or investment decisions were difficult to make (44 percent).
If the trade war between the US and China was already a "wake-up call" to reduce dependencies, the viral crisis from the perspective of EU Chamber President Wuttke underlines the need to "diversify supply chainsYeah. This could happen in other countries in Asia, but also within China. In view of the enormous size of the second largest economy, Wuttke stressed: "Leaving China is not an option." For example, a million-dollar city like Shenzhen in South China has a similar economic performance to Israel. "There is no second China. It's that simple."(dpa