Covid-19 continues to spread globally. These diseases have been confirmed by the staff of various ministries, the surroundings of the first group of people and even their family members.
The spread of HIV / AIDS has had a serious impact on the global situation, particularly the economy. National emergencies, combined with the global economic recession, cannot fail to affect the policies of the whole world. This is not only because officials are infected with the same infection, quarantined and cancelled visits and meetings. The epidemic could hinder the global political process and trigger new crises.
Election in the United States
At first, the president of the United States said the situation in Colorado was under full control and called on Americans to buy securities. But as disease rates rise, White House optimism has nothing to do with reality.
Initially, trap persuaded the nation that the United States was ready to fight covid-19. However, when the number of people infected reached thousands, the president had to declare a state of emergency. The springboard order to cancel flights from the EU has drawn more criticism, especially in Brussels. The EU is outraged that the president made the decision without any warningAbout This shows once again the cold relationship between the EU and the US. However, the original "springboard flight restriction order" did not cover the UK, which was the country where the Deputy Minister of health found corona velos. Although later measures were taken against the kingdom.
Last week, trainmar met with the Brazilian delegation and with Brazilian official Fabio waingateng. Soon, they found coronavirus in the last place. Still, the president and his deputy, Michael burns, did not go to quarantine as recommended. The division for ocean affairs and the law of the sea is limited to one test showing adverse results. At the same time, Senator Lindsay Graham also met with members of the Brazilian delegation and decided to be held incommunicado.
The rise in incidence is one of the biggest challenges we face during President Trump's term. At the same time, these tests are the culmination of the US campaign. The president's foolish decision may make him vote in the near future. Democrats in particular blocked the Colorado virus initiative from the podium. Last week, Joe Biden, a potential rival in the election, put forward his country's plan to get out of crisis. And Democrats in the house of Representatives passed a special agreemenAbout In addition, the epidemic is a challenge to the entire United States health system. In the context of the spread of the virus, Senator Bernie Sanders's commitment can bring new voices to voters. However, Biden and Sanders were forced to cancel some rallies for public safety reasons.
Schengen crisis
Italy is one of the main sources of virus transmission in Europe. Rome's decision to close the national isolation and isolation of the population - 60 million people - immediately triggered a response from neighbouring countries. Austria, Slovenia, Hungary and Switzerland have tightened controls on the Italian border, checking travelers' health and asking for medical certificates. Travel and transportation are restricted. Since 16 March, Germany has closed its borders with Austria, Denmark, France and Switzerland. The virus has virtually eliminated the EFA.
The European Commission and Frontex, the European border service, confirmed that they had infected staff. If the spread of disease in the EU continues to worsen, it is possible to close the borders of the whole EU. Cases of coronavirus have been recorded in all Community countries. The crisis once again shows the fragility of European solidarity and the inability of the EU to act in unisonAbout The spread of this virus forces countries to choose their own strategies. " The new migration crisis exacerbated the situation and spread across the EU's external borders.
Marina Chino pagliarello, a professor at the London School of economics, points out that the eurozone is experiencing a convergence of two major issues: "health and immigration, they overlap." In Europe, there is a lack of trust and solidarity. "
"Europe is paying the price for lack of cohesion and common policies," the experts stressed. The only way to successfully solve this problem is to take responsibility for this crisis. " A similar view was expressed by the president of the European Commission, Ursula von draen. " Banning the flow of people is not the most effective way for Colorado virus. EU countries must take corresponding measures, "she said.
Yash Muk, an expert on democracy and democracy at Johns Hopkins University, pointed out that although people in the opposition may use the spread of the virus to achieve their goals, For those already in power, the crisis could be a severe test.
"You can have a government that is divorced from reality until you have a serious crisis," he saiAbout "But in the face of a global pandemic, boasting and denying reality will be a crisis of trust for the people."
Migrants and refugees
So far, the biggest outbreaks have been in prosperous and relatively stable countries - China, Iran, Japan, Italy and South Korea. Each of them has a strong central government and organized medical services. However, in countries with less developed health systems, the virus is not only difficult to control, but also difficult to detect. This applies to a number of African countries as well as to war zones in Syria, Libya and Yemen.
Another major problem is the large number of refugees in Europe and the Middle East. In fact, these people are excluded from any social security. They live in crowded refugee camps with poor sanitation. This makes them most vulnerable to the epidemic. Millions of displaced people are scattered in Iraq, Lebanon, Turkey, Syria and Iran. Against this background, the Turkish government's decision not to stop the flow of refugees to Europe will only attract more attention. The uncontrolled flow of people without access to basic medical services only exacerbates the spread of the diseaseAbout
Impact on China
Unlike in the west, civil liberties are still a sensitive topic for the government, and China is not afraid to take severe measures to control the disease. About 150 million people in the country are not free to leave their homes. The authorities have successfully established one of the largest quarantine systems in the world. Although Beijing has achieved some success in the prevention and control of coronavirus, the political and economic impact of the Chinese people's infection remains to be estimated.
In general, society seems to be in line with a country's actions, which are more like a natural disaster. But the strong reaction of social networks to the death of Li Wenliang's young doctor in Wuhan proves that the Chinese people can also hold the authorities accountable at any time.
Another area, the Hong Kong rebellion, remains a problem for Beijing. The virus reduced street activity, but further worsened the relationship between protesters and local authorities. The administration in the region has been taking preventive measures for too long. Despite a large number of Chinese citizens, the news about Colorado has long been of secondary importance. The border with mainland China was closed only after protesters demanded it in February. These speeches are even supported by the ruling party. SARS killed 299 people in 2003About In Hong Kong's parliamentary election in September 2020, the government's hesitation and pessimism of protesters will inevitably be affected.
Last week, coronaveros officially acknowledged the global crisis. Experts hope that this will change with hot weather or the discovery of vaccines. Serious consequences for the well-being of mankind as a whole are likely to be avoidable. But the political impact of the epidemic seems to be just beginning.
Dmitry beliaye