The coronavirus epidemic began in China and has spread to Europe and the United States. In the western world, schools, cafes and museums are closed and sports are cancelled. Every day there is news of hundreds of deaths. Tasis has collected the most intense reactions from the press to the outbreak of the disease, threatening all people on earth.
U.S.A
Washington Post: "as part of a massive emergency effort to protect the economy from the Colorado disaster, the Federal Reserve announced Sunday that it would cut its base rate to zero. At least $700 billion in government and mortgage purchases. These measures, the most radical since the 2008 crisis, aim to stabilize financial markets and ensure that credit costs are as low as possible, as the PA's financial services companies and PA's financial services companies announced in their September 2008 message that they would implement them by 1 January 2008. The whole country is closed, and the U.S. economy is heading for recession After using most of its arsenals, the Fed did not rule out even these steps, which are not enough. Further measures must be taken in the future However, it is not clear what other steps the Federal Reserve can take to significantly change the direction of economic development. The Fed's draconian measures are worrying, and the economy may be worse than many experts thinAbout
The Wall Street Journal: "there are more and more opportunities for the United States and the world to enter a recession in the context of pandemics In the United States, the world's most powerful economy, more and more flights, conferences and music festivals have been cancelled and rescheduled, Sports and other public events, while oil companies have been hit hard by falling oil prices.
When U.S. oil prices fell to about $30 a barrel, shale companies announced a reduction in drilling, This will lead to the withdrawal of hundreds of oil service companies from the market and the dismissal of a large number of their employees Experts at Morgan bank estimate that the economy will enter a recession in the first half of this year, ending the growth period that began in 2009. The World Bank expects sustained economic growth to resume in the second half of the year if the $500 billion economic package under consideration by Congress. Approval.
CNN: "
President Donald Trapp declared a national emergency Friday, acknowledging that the country cannot avoid infectioAbout Many of the decisions to be made relate to the nature of the concept, which means what Americans are. The personal freedom that many Americans cherish has to change. In the fight to control coronavirus, the earliest victims may be freedom of movement, assembly and protest. This sense of exclusion is deeply rooted in American psychology and will have to give up. This battle cannot be won through the most powerful armed forces or the largest economy in the world. "
Time: "one of the main reasons for criticizing the springboard government is that, It ignores the main factor to solve this problem, that is, the need for large-scale use of diagnostic packages.
According to data from the Centers for Disease Control and prevention, the United States conducted 13624 tests on covid-19. South Korea said it had conducted more than 230000 such tests. Part of the reason for this difference is that South Korea has set up dozens of mobile detection stations for people to use without getting off the train. "
Britain
"The fall in oil prices in March 2020 is unlikely to last for a long time," the Financial Times said. As in 2014, with the price of a barrel falling from $110 to less than $50 in just a few weeks, the current situation will be a temporary crisis for the US shale industryAbout If the coronavirus doesn't end the world, cheap oil will only help politicians revive the world economy. However, there is an important and long-term difference between the situation six years ago and the current situation, which will have serious market and geopolitical implications. The collapse of oil prices is just the first warning of where the entire energy sector is headed, and it is falling. "
The times: "doctors warn that a chronic lack of resuscitation beds and first aid kits will soon force hospitals to implement a system, In this case, some patients are refused special treatment because their survival chance is evaluated as insignificant. In the UK, there are an average of 6.6 recovery beds per 100000 people. The figure is twice that of Italy and five times that of Germany. If infection rates continue to rise, the NHS（
Germany
M ü nchner Merkur: "politicians are too late to realize the seriousness of the situation. The most severe measures are being taken now. But it was a waste of time to beat Colorado quicklyAbout
They are our heroes, like nurses, like cashiers in supermarkets, who arrive at a dangerous workplace every morning, or the food supply system collapses. "
K ö lner Stadt anzeiger: "empty pasta shelves, people who buy 250 liters of mineral water, salesmen on the edge of a nervous breakdown who are now rolling photos on social networks, After reading these painful descriptions, or going shopping by myself, I can only shake my head at the kind of people who are almost unknown in Germany so far, A so-called food buyer. If it's just unreasonable, you can only shake your head, but unfortunately, it's also harmful. "
France
Le Monde: "as has been done in Italy and Spain, a comprehensive quarantine of all French people has never been implemented in France in peacetime. However, this may be the only way to slow down the spread of an epidemic that causes fear for all, including the highest leadership of the country. "
Lib é ration: "in the big cities of France, in the parks of Paris, on the porch of the cafe full of sunshine on Sundays, there are many cafes." -The gap between strict quarantine measures and urban residents' attitudes towards them became quite clear by the end of the week. The authorities' decision to hold municipal elections has also caused misunderstandingAbout "Will closing all public places that are not necessary for the operation of the state, at least by April 15, change citizens' behavior?" Restrictive measures will reverse the daily lives of millions of people, affecting everything from child care to areas with far-reaching economic impact in all sectors. Page: 1
Italy
La Reppublica:” And across Europe, the consequences will be more devastating. Cerved estimated the impact of the epidemic on production and processed 750000 cases. Company... If the emergency continues into December, it will cost 641 billion euros over the next two years. 10% of companies are facing bankruptcy. If it ends in May, the proportion of risk companies will fall to 6.8%.
Spain
El Pais: "Coronavirus started to tyrannize in Spain. Instead, fear of the virus comes from China's penetration of all news, radio stations and newspapers, resulting in the closure of schools, universities, libraries and theaters, 2. Cancel the meetings of both houses of Parliament. Sports will take place without an audience, although dealers say there will be food and supermarket shelves are half emptyAbout This shows that people store basic necessities because they think it will be a long-term isolation Spain is concerned that governments - national and regional - are taking increasingly stringent measures to deal with this terrible disease, which are generally endorsed by Spaniards. "
Switzerland
Le Temps: " She wanted to protect him with powerful measures. The most impressive is the closure of all schools. A shocking one, but one that has become necessary to fight disease. Schools - sacred schools - depend on state authorities, but fortunately, Berne made a decision that would be irresponsible if it were different. These measures are changing society as a whole.
Unity, trust and social connections must win. "
China
China Daily: "China will take further financial stability measures on Monday. This should prevent market volatility, encourage the recovery of the non-financial sector and help the affected economy return to normal. To this end, 550 billion yuan of assets (78 billion yuan) were released as new funds in the financial sector. Before the economic indicators for January February are released, including investment in industrial production and fixed capital, these indicators will be used. About
Renmin Ribao said: "there are 580000 members of the Communist Party of China going to the front line of prevention and control of the epidemic in Hubei Province. Therefore, the party's banner is held high in the front line of anti-virus.
Japan
Nikkei: "the sport that was supposed to start last week was cancelled because of canaverus. The Japanese Professional Baseball League decided to postpone the start of the season, which should have started on Friday. Some Olympic qualifying events have also been cancelled, just to highlight whether the Tokyo Olympics should be opened as planned.
Mainichi: "although the death rate in the new coronaverus is not that high, It can be passed from one person to another without any symptoms and with very serious consequences. If a group of sick people enter the medical facilities, the hospital will not function properly. Therefore, the virus is very dangerous to the public health system. Given the endless flow of people, money and goods around the world, it is impossible to isolate the virus in one country or even one region. Experts predict a long-term battle with Colorado. About
India
News18: "how do we prepare covid-19? Quite good, very good! We have a good start in checking passengers at the airport. India is much earlier than many other countries. We began to check the temperature of Chinese tourists on January 17, and then 17 days later, As China told the World Health Organization, Wuhan has the mysterious pneumonia. " 1.2 million passengers from abroad have been screened for Colorado virus at airports across the country. From a logistics point of view, this is a difficult task, but India does.
Singapore
Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Times: Europe has never dealt with crises as effectively as Asia. The outbreak of epidemics and dangerous diseases in Asia has taught governments and people how to deal with this extreme situation. There is no such experience in Europe. Most European countries have begun to emulate Asian measures - isolation, border closures and the elimination of public activities. Almost everyone did so, with the exception of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who deliberately accompanied medical experts and said the measures taken had no effect. Scientific viewpoinAbout Moreover, Londoners believe that the focus should be on slowing down rather than on prevention. In particular, young people may not receive treatment because their bodies have to deal with the virus and care must be taken to treat the elderly and the weak. But Johnson's approach is very dangerous. "
Israel
"Two factors make Europe particularly vulnerable," Israel told us. First, older people are more vulnerable to pollution than the rest of the world. Second, Europe's response to the virus's start is slow and hesitant. In most parts of the continent, measures are neither comprehensive nor adequate. This slow and hesitant response is a direct result of a firm commitment to the current European ideology, which emphasizes freedom, Openness gives priority to the interests of individuals rather than many people and society as a whole. Europeans who used to criticize Israel rather than Israel should learn from a small Jewish state. How to balance individual freedom with the welfare of the majority. "
Saudi Arabia
Asharq al awsat: "the Iranian authorities have withheld real statistics about the Colorado virus epidemicAbout The government sent national security personnel to the hospital to prevent the disclosure of true information about the actual infection and the number of deaths due to fear, This may aggravate domestic opposition and cause negative international impact. Experts monitoring events in Iran believe that Tehran is responsible for the spread of the virus in Iraq, Bahrain, Kuwait, Afghanistan, the Sultanate of Oman, Lebanon, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. The two countries are Saudi Arabia and Canada. They point out that the concealment of the truth by the authorities has become a more open criticism of the regime in the social network. "
Iran
IRNA: "the proportion of Internet shopping in China is increasing. In the past three weeks, online product sales have increased by 52%. This shows that consumer behavior has changed. Just two weeks ago, many people didn't take Colorado virus seriously and preferred to go shopping. However, subsequent events have made it more necessary for citizens of the country than ever to control their own spending. "
Brazil
O Globo: "in 2008, all countries acted together quickly The situation in 2020 is different: countries are not only fragmented, but also accusing each other. Government economists have limited resources to stimulate their economiesAbout US President Donald Trapp banned Europeans from entering the country without any prior negotiations, which was unthinkable in 2008. All countries are making their own economic plans independently, which will only aggravate the problem. 