It was only in the financial markets that the worry about the Coronavirus was lifted, but that is now over. Stock prices collapsed at the beginning of the week, oil prices declined. On the other hand, investments such as gold and government bonds, considered as a "safe haven" in times of crisis, were needed. The reason for the turbulence: the number of infected has increased significantly over the weekend in Italy, the number of deaths caused by the virus has risen sharply in China and South Korea is also increasingly affected.
"It is clear that the economic consequences of the Corona epidemic will be significant," commented Michael Bissinger, an expert at DZ Bank. Damage caused by production failures, disrupted supply chains, limited consumption possibilities and travel failures are already considerable, especially for China and the Asian neighbouring states.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has already lowered its growth forecasts for China, and according to Unicredit chief economist Erik Nielsen, the country's economy is expected to grow by only three percent in the first quarter, after around six percent at the end of 2019. Given China's recent sharply increased importance for the global economy, the expert said, this will have a corresponding impact on the global economy.
With regard to Germany, economists of leading German financial institutions assume that the epidemic could delay a recovery. China is an important trading partner of Germany. For the automakers BMW, Daimler and Volkswagen, the empire of the middle is the most important single market. In addition, there were temporary production stoppages, although BMW and Daimler were now able to restart their production in China and Volkswagen announced on Monday that they had resumed operations of most of the plantsYeah.
Industry expert Ferdinand DudenHofer expects a decrease in production by two,7 million vehicles worldwide compared to the previous year. The German car industry was particularly affected by the high share of 35-percent of total sales in China.
The Federal Association of German Industry (BDI) also warns of possible effects of the virus on the economy and calls on politics to act. "In addition to health protection, politics must now focus on economic crisis management," said BDI chief executive Joachim Lang. "The federal government must now provide economic policy impulses to boost growth as quickly as possible." Purchase, production and sales are severely restricted.
If production in Chinese factories is prolonged because they remain closed because of the virus, their customers will also be put at risk. Apple, for example, recently collected its revenue forecast for the current quarter due to supply shortages on iPhones due to the Coronavirus. On Monday, the British mixed group AB Foods also warned of the impact on its Primark textile chain. In Germany, according to BDI, the electrical, automotive, pharmaceutical and paper industries are expecting, among other things, bottlenecks in supplies from the Far East.
An additional problem, according to expert Nielsen, is that central banks cannot respond to such supply shocks. The money-keepers can try to boost the purchasing momentum of businesses and consumers, for example, with cheap money. But if there is simply little or nothing to buy, it is of no use.
If less is produced, less must be transported. This is the first thing that logistics companies and airlines will feel. In addition to the German car builders'papers, their shares were among the biggest losers at the start of the weekYeah. For the German index Dax, up to the afternoon the total was almost four percent downward. In the rest of Europe as well as in Asia, the Dow Jones stock index also went downhill and lost about three percent to the trade-off on the US stock exchanges.
Papers from the luxury industry were also under pressure because a large part of the turnover here is based on purchases of tourists. According to a study by the consulting company Boston Consulting Group (BCG) on the Coronavirus, the luxury goods industry expects to face billions in revenue and profits.
The economic fears also pushed oil prices. After all, if economic activity and travel activities are halted, the already existing oversupply on the oil market will be even greater, explains raw material expert Carsten Fritsch from the Commerzbank. On the other hand, the installations considered to be safe ports were in demand. Government bonds increased sharply, their yields fell in return. The gold price rose to a seven-year high, approached the brand of 1700 US dollars per fine ounce (31,1 grams) and even reached a record of 1561 euro converted into euro