After new evidence of infection with the Coronavirus Sars-CoV-2 has become known, the hope of keeping the lung disease out of Germany has been dashed. What is being done to limit the spread and what is known about the virus and the disease?
According to the Robert Koch Institute (RKI), further imports of cases into Germany are expected. Other transmissions of Sars-CoV-2, infection chains and outbreaks in the country were also possible. Local infections could initially remain unknown, said Robert Koch Institute (RKI) Vice President Lars Schaade at RBB on Wednesday. It is "quite possible that we do not recognise all these outbreaks immediately". It is to be expected that this will lead to a further spread. The risk to the health of the German population is currently estimated by the experts as low to moderate.
The Berlin virologist Christian Drosten recently explained that an infection wave in this country could mean, among other things, full waiting areas and medical practices, occupied intensive beds and completely congested health offices. Healthcare systems are already under heavy strain. For this reason, the aim was to delay the spread of the Coronavirus as far as possible, as the Robert Koch Institut e (RKI) recently explained. "We must try with reasonable effort to slow down the spread in order to alleviate an intense strain on the health system," Drosten said. "The number of infections should be extended for as long as possible."
A value that many other people infect an infected person in the medium can still not be stated with certainty. The virus spreads through droplet infection, e.g. coughing and speakinYeah. Initial results indicate that the virus can also be spread over the digestive system and at least for a few days over surfaces. A previously underestimated risk might be that in stool samples of patients in the initial phase of Covid-19 disease "quite relevant quantities" of Sars-CoV-2 could be detected, for example Clemens Wendtner, chief physician of infectiology and tropical medicine at the Munich clinic Schwabing, explained.
That is still a difficult question. For a final assessment of the severity of the new respiratory disease, insufficient data are currently available, says RKI. According to a recent analysis presented by the Chinese health authority, a 2,3 percent of those infected with Sars-CoV-2 are dying in the country. It is therefore mainly old people and those with severe pre-existing diseases such as cardiovascular diseases and diabetes who are affected. For people over eighty years, the death rate calculated from the data available there is almost fifteen per cent, so they die in this age group in China on average fifteen per cent infected. In the group of ten to 39-year-old people, 0,2 percent of the infected die, i.e. about two percent of 1000 affected.
Experts believe that mortality is actually lower than estimated in China, partly because many mild-acting infections are not recorded in Chinese statistics. But there are no reliable analyses of mortality from other countries so far.
Most people have only mild cold symptoms with frostbite and sore throat or no symptoms at all. In addition, fever, cough and respiratory problems can occur, as they do with a flu. Headaches or diarrhoea are also possible.
According to the Chinese health authority, for more than 80 percent of the infected, mild infections occur, almost 14 percent are severely affectedYeah. With almost five percent, life-threatening effects such as respiratory arrest, septic shock or multi-organ failure occur.
The incubation period, the period between infection and onset of symptoms, is usually two to 14 days at the current stage. That's the reason we isolate suspect cases for two weeks.
There is no special treatment for Covid-19 disease. Severely ill patients are treated symptomatically: with fever-reducing agents, the treatment of possible additional bacterial infections and sometimes mechanical ventilation. Antiviral medicines are also tested in individual cases.
Nope. Several laboratories worldwide are currently researching vaccines such as those for influenza. However, the development of protective vaccination takes a long time. WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan believes that the first human vaccine tests could begin in three to four months. However, a certified vaccine for extensive use will probably not be available until 18 months.
The US biotech company Moderna reported on Monday that it had developed a vaccine candidate and delivered it to the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID). According to CNN, its director Anthony Fauci announced the first clinical trials for the end of April. He also expected that it would be one to a half years before a vaccine was available.
To protect against this virus as well as other viruses, experts recommend common hygiene measures: regular hand washing, disinfectants and distance to the sick. Experts estimate the benefits of normal breathing masks, as currently seen in China and other countries all over the streets, to be rather low. It can help to limit hugs and handshakes and not touch surfaces touched by many people such as doorknobs, handles and elevator buttonYeah.
In principle, it is unclear how long the virus survives on surfaces, says the World Health Organisation. Studies suggested that it would be a few hours or days depending on conditions such as surface, temperature or humidity. The probability that an infected product contaminates with the virus is considered low by the Authority. The risk that a recipient might become infected by a package exposed to different conditions and temperatures during transport was also low.
Imported food and goods such as toys, computers or clothing are also unlikely to be sources of infection, says the Federal Institute for Risk Assessment. Experts stress the importance of observing general hygiene rules, i.e. washing your hands regularly.
People who have had contact with an infected person should first report to their health department, regardless of whether symptoms have occurred or not. Travellers from risk areas who have symptoms should consult a doctor after a telephone call with an indication of the journey.
The main regulation is the National Infection Protection Act (IfSG). A spokesman for the Bavarian Ministry of Health summarises: "If necessary, important fundamental rights such as the freedom of the person can also be According to the Bavarian State Attorney Stephan Rixen, authorities may require blood and skin and mucous membranes to be removed. "Suspects of illness" and "Suspects of infection", as the law expresses, could also be subject to a professional prohibition. For the protection of others, people could also be "isolated in a suitable hospital or otherwise in a suitable way", the law states