Worrying about the global economy is growing with the spread of the new Coronavirus in China. According to a study, the virus could be harmful to the global automotive industry.
The German Bundesbank sees risks for the German economy. According to the head of the Institute for the World Economy (IfW), Gabriel Felbermayr, the damage is "disproportionately greater" with each day production plants in the second largest economy in the world are shut down. Producers in Germany and other countries were dependent on Chinese inputs, stocks did not last forever, Felbermayr told the "Trade Sheet" (Monday).
A temporary decline in overall economic demand in China could dampen German exports, the German Bundesbank explained in the current monthly report. China is an important market for "Made in Germany" goods.
At the same time, many products are produced there, including for further processing in other countries. Security precautions for the virus could affect some global value chains, the monthly report said. "Supply bottlenecks in individual industries in the country would be the consequence," wrote the Bundesbank experts.
From the point of view of the RWI Leibniz Institute of Economic Research, the economic impact of the epidemic depends on how long production in China is hampered.
"In our estimation, economic growth in China in the first quarter could be dampened by approximately 2.5 percent," economic experts Roland Dhrurn told dpa. Compared to the previous year, it would only be between three and four percent instead of six percent as expected. "This development will also be noticeable in Germany, in particular through lower exports and a steady supply of pre-products by Chinese suppliers," explained DhrurnYeah.
According to a study, the Sars-CoV-2 virus could be harmful to the global automotive industry. Only in the particularly affected Chinese province of Hubei, nearly two million cars per year would be produced in over a dozen locations, according to the analysis of the consulting company BCG.
The new Coronavirus has already affected many industries, it is said, the study of the Boston Consulting Group (BCG). "But the car industry stands out as one that feels the effects quickly and deeply in view of China's crucial role." Thus, the country is the largest market for new cars and, at the same time, an important location for manufacturers and suppliers. "The automotive industry will be affected locally and around the globe," writes the consultants with a view to disrupted supply chains.
For German manufacturers such as Mercedes-Benz, Audi, BMW, Volkswagen and Porsche, China is the most important market. At VW, the People's Republic represents a good 40-percent of deliveries. And when it comes to converting to electric cars, the corporations depend on battery cells from China. US manufacturers also depend on the Far East: GM sells more cars in China than in the USA, BCG said.
The new lung disease has already hit the German car companies. For example, because of the Coronavirus BMW had extended the Chinese New Year holidays at its world's largest location in the millionth city of Shenyang.
Volkswagen had to postpone production because of the epidemic. Production at the plants of the joint venture with Shanghai Automotive (SAIC) should not take place until 24. In February, instead of being resumed this Monday, the Group explained. The reasons are problems in the supply chains and logistics as well as limited travel possibilities for employeeYeah. The other plants operated with manufacturers of First Automotive Works have partly resumed production or are expected to resume production in the coming days, it was said.
The chemical industry has so far felt "little impact" on the industry in Germany. In China, however, German chemical companies had already shut down production, according to VCI. Demand in the People's Republic had fallen and value chains had been damaged. "With every day that the Corona epidemic continues, the risk of negative consequences for the global economy increases," warned VCI chief executive Wolfgang Grande Entrup. (dpa