With the surprisingly large Covid-19 outbreak in Italy, there is growing concern about new cases in Germany. At first, undetected chains of infection are also possible here, according to experts. This is known for the Sars-CoV-2 virus and the Covid-19 disease it causes:
How contagious is the new Coronavirus?
A value that many other people infect an infected person in the medium can still not be stated with certainty. It is clear that the virus spreads through droplet infection, such as coughing and talking. And it is also clear that the pathogen is significantly more infectious than initially assumed: unlike the closely related Sars pathogen, the Covid-19 virus also multiplies in the neck area. In the upper respiratory tract, the path of infection is much shorter than when an organism first has to get out of the lung and into another person's lungs. Flu viruses also multiply in the throat.
In addition, initial results indicate that the virus can also be spread over the digestive system and at least for a few days over surfaces. A previously underestimated risk might be that in stool samples of patients in the initial phase of Covid-19 disease "quite relevant quantities" of Sars-CoV-2 could be detected, for example Clemens Wendtner, chief physician of infectiology and tropical medicine at the Munich clinic Schwabing, explained.
The extent to which people who are largely or entirely symptom-free may be infectious is not yet clear.
What is the risk of infection in Germany?
With the large number of proven infections in Italy, travel also increases the risk of Covid-19 being smuggled into Germany. The risk of clusters similar to those in Italy occurring elsewhere in Europe is currently considered moderat e to high, said ECDC on Sunday eveninYeah. Once inserted, the virus can quickly spread. ECDC Director Andrea Ammon said that it is expected that there will be further cases in Italy and possibly in other parts of the EU in the coming days.
Experts believe that there could be other infection chains in European countries for a long time, of which no one is aware, including in Germany. "At some point, undetected infections are likely to be noticed suddenly," Berlin virologist Christian Drosten recently explained.
What would an outbreak in Germany mean?
An infection wave in this country could mean, among other things, full waiting areas and medical practices, occupied intensive beds and completely overloaded health offices, Berlin virologist Christian Drosten recently said. The Charity's CEO, Heyo Kroemer, stressed in mid-February that preparations were being made intensively. The hospital system generally runs at full load in winter, but in the case of Sars-CoV-2 infections in the country, the facilities would have room for manoeuvre, for example by moving non-urgent operations.
The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) said the goal in Germany was to delay a wave of disease in order to prevent the Covid-19 and the current flu waves from collapsing. "We must try with reasonable effort to slow down the spread in order to mitigate an intense strain on the health system," said threats. "The number of infections should be extended for as long as possible."
How dangerous is the virus?
According to an analysis presented by the Chinese health authority, a 2,3 percent of those infected with Sars-CoV-2 die in the country. It is therefore mainly old people who are affected and those with severe pre-existing diseases such as cardiovascular diseases or diabeteYeah. For people over eighty years, the death rate calculated from the data available there is almost fifteen per cent, so they die in this age group in China on average fifteen per cent infected. In the group of ten to 39-year-old people, 0,2 percent of the infected die, i.e. about two percent of 1000 affected.
In the vast majority of cases, according to the health authority more than 80-percent, people who have contracted Covid-19 show only mild symptoms. Few 14 percent of those affected develop severe symptoms such as shortness of breath, almost five percent life-threatening effects such as respiratory arrest, septic shock or multi-organ failure.
The Director-General of the World Health Organisation (WHO) also spoke of a good 80-percent mild course of infection, referring to the data analysis from China. There are also relatively few cases in children, said Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. It is still unclear why this is so.
Experts believe that mortality is actually lower than expected in China, partly because many mild-acting infections are not recorded in Chinese statistics. But there are no reliable analyses of mortality from other countries so far.
What symptoms does the new Coronavirus cause?
Many people have only mild cold symptoms with frostbite and sore throat or no symptoms at all. In addition, fever, cough and respiratory problems can occur, as they do with a flu. Headaches or diarrhoea are also possible. The incubation period, the period between infection and onset of symptoms, is usually two to 14 days at the current stage. That's the reason we isolate suspect cases for two weeks.
How can the new lung disease be treated?
There is no special treatment for Covid-19 diseasYeah. Severely ill patients are treated symptomatically: with fever-reducing agents, the treatment of possible additional bacterial infections and sometimes mechanical ventilation.
Is there a protective vaccine?
Nope. Several laboratories worldwide are currently researching vaccines such as the flu vaccine. However, the development of protective vaccination takes a long time. The first experimental vaccines could be available this year, said the virologist Gerd Sutter of the Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich recently. Whether and when they could be tested on humans was another matter. "The development of a vaccine is a long, arduous process, especially the approval and clinical examination of a candidate."
WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan believes that the first human vaccine tests could begin in three to four months. However, a certified vaccine for extensive use will probably not be available until 18 months.
Do we have a pandemic at Covid-19 yet?
A pandemic often means the spread of a disease in humans across all continents. A region is considered to be "affected" if there are transmission chains and not just individual entrances by travellers. Reports of such infection chains are still missing from Africa and America. The question was whether certain African and South American countries are testing the virus at all and whether cases are detected, said the Berlin virologist Christian Drosten.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) no longer uses the term pandemic and does not explain it. The seriousness of a disease is measured only by the declaration of an "international emergency". This has nothing to do with the common definition of pandemiYeah.
What kind of virus is Sars-CoV-2?
Sars-2-CoV, which is likely to be passed on to humans in November or December in a wildlife market in Wuhan, China, is one of the Coronaviruses. They are so named because of the jagged structures on their surface. Seven representatives of this group cause respiratory diseases in humans, such as colds or coughing.
Sars-CoV-2 is included by three people who are known to sometimes cause severe symptoms. Also from China, Sars-CoV-2 (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) was known to 2002/2003 around 8000 cases, around 800 people died. ==References====External links====External links==* Official website It is less contagious, but more aggressive: from around 2500 infected to November 2019, nearly 860- about every third died.
The Covid-19-agent Sars-CoV-2 is genetically very closely related to the Sars-CoV, which is why it has been given a very similar technical name.
How can I protect myself?
To protect against this virus as well as other viruses, experts recommend common hygiene measures: regular hand washing, disinfectants and distance to the sick. Experts estimate the benefits of normal respiratory masks, as seen everywhere on the streets in China at the moment, to be rather low. It can be useful to limit hugs and shakes and not touch surfaces touched by many people such as doorknobs, handles and elevator buttons.
What good is a mouthpiece?
"Healthy people travelling in Germany do not need a mask", says a spokesman for the German Pharmaceutical Association (ABDA). A simple mouth-nose protection, as nurses and doctors wear in surgeries, does not protect against infection with the new Sars-CoV-2 virus anyway.
There are also proper respiratory masks with built-in filteYeah. But even then, so-called FFP2 and FFP3 masks can prevent infection by dripping, if they are sitting properly. "But this is nonsense in everyday life," said Bernd Salzberger of Regensburg University Hospital, president of the German Society for Infectiology. Especially with a mask like that, it's hard to breathe.
Because of the new Coronavirus, protective masks have been sold out in many pharmacies for weeks and they are scarcely supplied. This is explained by the Federal Federation of Pharmaceutical Wholesale (PHAGRO).
When will Coronavirus be tested?
In the routine monitoring of acute respiratory diseases in Germany with the help of selected medical practices, attention is now also being paid to the new Coronavirus. As the Robert Koch-Institut (RKI) announced in Berlin on Monday, the working group Influenza (AGI) has integrated a Sars-CoV-2 study "into the spectrum of pathogens to be investigated". According to RKI data, respiratory tests are now being analysed from patients from 100 to 150 medical practices. The MDR had previously reported on the subject.
The annual monitoring by the AGI shall cover, inter alia, the course and severity of respiratory diseases and the characteristics of each circulating agent. The sample of participating medical practices is intended to identify trends. Above all, it is the flu that causes thousands of people in Germany to get sick every year. It is also tested on rhinoviruses, which are often behind colds and colds.
Where is the latest information?
The Robert Koch Institute (RKI), the Federal Centre for Health Education (BZgA) and the Federal Ministry of Health (BMG) have set up such websites. (dpa