Despite concerns about the Coronavirus in China, the medical company Fresenius expects more profit again. After a difficult year in the German clinic business, Fresenius wants to put his weakness behind him.
Thus, turnover 2020 is to be adjusted by up to seven percent and profit by up to five percent, as reported by the Dax Group. "We are firmly convinced that we will achieve results again this year," said Managing Director Stephan Storm in Bad Homburg on Thursday. Last year, the profits had stagnated.
But now the Coronavirus is causing the wind. Fresenius is primarily engaged in hospitals, liquid medicine and infusions (Kabi) and the dialysis daughter FMC in Europe and the USA. But Kabi has production facilities in China that stopped due to the new lung disease, said Storm. The division will feel the consequences of the Coronavirus at the sold volume.
In the People's Republic, access to hospitals would be restricted and supply chains would be disrupted. "A lot of work is done from stockpiles," said Storm. There would also be many pre-products for medicines from China. The longer the virus epidemic persists, the more likely bottlenecks will be.
Also, the dialysis daughter Fresenius Medical Care (FMNC) China had declared the growth market. Worldwide, most dialysis patients there, but only 45 percent of Chinese with chronic kidney failure would have access to treatment. Treatments in the centres continued despite the Coronavirus, but there are problems selling devices for home dialysis. Because of lung disease, many Chinese stay at home.
In the business view of the current year, storm also left a back door open. It did not include possible consequences of the Coronavirus. It was too early to count thesYeah. Fresenius does not currently expect any significant negative financial impact.
Fresenius with well 294.000 employees worldwide has had a busy year. Thus, in the clinic business, falling case numbers, the trend towards outpatient treatment and stricter regulations had burdened. In the case of liquid medicine and infusions, the group was also under price pressure in the USA. Storm had declared 2019 a transitional year and after two successive profit warnings fought with a lot of skepticism on the stock exchange. Now Fresenius stock went up by more than five percent.
Last year, Group turnover increased by eight percent to 35,5 billion euro. The profit rose by two percent to 1,9 billion euros, without exchange rate effects it stagnated. "This is not our claim," said Storm.
While the dialysis daughter Fresenius Medical Care added in the fourth quarter, the results decreased with liquid medicines, infusions and clinical nutrition. Hospital business, on the other hand, stabilized. Fresenius is Germany's largest hospital operator and had recently purchased several houses in Colombia via his Spanish daughter Quironsalud. The entry into hospital business of a third European country was also conceivable, stressed storm.
Fresenius said he was well equipped for the future. "This is why we look forward with confidence and confirm our ambitious medium-term goals." Shareholders are to receive a higher dividend of 0.84 euros per share after 0.80 euros in the previous year. (dpa