The rejection of the table tennis championship, football in front of empty courts in Milan, and even behind Olympia is at least one small question mark: the spread of the new Coronavirus is increasingly worrying the sporting world.
IOC member Richard Pound estimates that there is still a three-month window for a decision to cancel the Olympic Games due to the Coronavirus. "It is a big, big, big decision, and it can only be made if you have reliable facts to rely on," said the senior member of the International Olympic Committee in the AP News Agency interview. The Tokyo Games are due in 150 days.
On Tuesday, it was also announced that the World Cup Table tennis federation will postpone the planned team championship in the South Korean Busan by at least three months. The 6th. to 8. The World Cup planned in Padua will be moved to Tauberbischofsheim in March. The German-Eighth will complete his planned training camp not in Garivate in Lombardy, but in March in Lago Azul in Portugal.
With a view to the EM this summer, the European Football Union is watching UEFA closely with current developments. "We are in a phase of waiting and watching the situation country by country: football must follow the instructions of the governments in the individual states," said UEFA Vice-President Michele Uva to the Italian radio station Rai.
The EM opening game is due on 12th. The tournament will take place in Rome in June and will be held in twelve countries. Consequences for the tournament can only be expected "in case of emergency", Uva said. "The sports route will only be closed when the situation worsens," said the ItaliaYeah. In its homeland, out of concern for lung disease, Inter Milan's Europa League game against Ludogorets Rasgrad will take place in empty ranks. Four A-series games had already been cancelled on the weekend.
In Germany, national team physician Tim Meyer does not currently consider such cancellations necessary. "No one can seriously predict what the situation will be in one or two weeks," he said in an interview published on the German Football Federation's homepage. The German Football League is also monitoring the situation. The German Football League is also monitoring the situation. According to dpa, however, there are currently no game cancellations under discussion.
In Italy Inter Milan awaits a so-called ghost game. The homecoming match in the Europe League against the Bulgarian champion on Thursday (21.00 clock) will be held in the empty San Siro stadium, as the club announced after the UEFA vote. Milan is located in the Lombardy region, which is particularly affected by the Coronavirus.
Ferrari closed two museums in northern Italy as a precautionary measure. The Rugby Association has announced to suspend games this weekend. Italy's Sports Minister, Vincenzo Spadafora, has agreed to allow the first football league to hold meetings without spectators in the regions affected by the new Coronavirus, including the top Juventus Turin game against Inter Milan.
The Japanese J-League decided to postpone all scheduled games until mid-March. Overall, 94 consignments are concerned. The league had not started until the weekend with the first day of the season.
The German table tennis team around Timo Boll has to adjust to the shift of the team's World Cup. The Sports Director of the German Table tennis Federation, Richard Prause, called the World Association's decision a "good measureYeah. "Health is above all else, one does not want to put oneself at risk. That is why there is no alternative to this postponement,"Prause of the German Press Agency said. South Korea is now the country most affected by the Sars CoV-2 virus after China. Whether the competition can take place on a replacement date is still questionable.
With the new game cancellations, the list of sports events cancelled due to the Coronavirus continues to grow: among them are the Hall World Championships of athletes in Nanjing, the World Cup ski races in Yanqing, the international equestrian tournament in Hong Kong and the Great Prize of China formula 1. It is still unclear whether the alpine ski World Cup races of the ladies can take place at the weekend as planned in the Italian La Thuile. (dpa