Bulgarian political scientist Ivan Krastev runs the Center for Liberal Strategies in Sofia and is a permanent Fellow at the Institute for Human Sciences in Vienna, where he heads the focus "The Future of Democracy". He is a founding and managing director of the European Council on Foreign Relations and a member of the Board of Directors of the International Crisis Group. Krastev published a series of influential books and essays and writes regularly for the "New York Times".
"We live in strange times," wrote a Spanish
Friend recently, and they're really weird. We do not know when the
Covid-19 pandemic will be over; we do not know how they will end
and over the long-term
At the moment, we can only speculate on the political and economic consequences. In times of crisis, we are infected with insecurity.
Nevertheless, seven things can be said about this crisis that distinguish them from previous crises.
Different
As in the financial crisis 2008/2009, the Coronavirus will force the return of the Big Government. After Lehman Brothers collapsed
many observers thought that the crisis-related mistrust in the market
would lead to more confidence in governments. This was a well-known
Concept: After the Great Depression, citizens demanded a decisive
Government intervention to compensate for market losses. In the 1970s it was the other way round: the citizens were disappointed with the
Interventions and started to believe in the market again. The paradox of
Years 2008/2009 consist of the fact that market distrust
Demand for more state intervention led. But the Coronavirus will
Restore the state in fulYeah. Citizens rely on governments to organise the collective defence of the pandemic and to
save the economy. The efficiency of a government will now be
assess whether it is able to measure the everyday behaviour of people to
change.
The
Coronavirus once again brings to light the nimbus of borders and will
contribute to the role of nations within the European Union to:
Strengthen. This can already be done by closing the borders between the
and that every government in Europe is now looking to their
Focused on its citizens. Under normal circumstances, EU Member States would
in their health systems, patients not by nationality
different. But in this crisis it is likely that they will
Prefer your own citizens over others (this is not about immigrants
from non-EU countries, but around Europeans with an EU passport). The Coronavirus
It will therefore strengthen nationalism, if not ethnic nationalism.
In order to survive, the state will require citizens to build walls,
not only between countries, but also between individuals, because
the risk of infection comes from the people most frequently encountered.
It is not the foreigner, but it is the next who is the greatest risk
show.
Here.
is about trust in
Expertise. The financial crisis and the refugee crisis
have led to great public dissatisfaction with the experts. This development, which is an important factor for the success of populist politicians
In the past ten years has been, will be returned by the Coronavirus.
Most people are very open to their trust in experts
and follow science when their own lives are at stakYeah.
This can already be seen by how much the experts who
against the virus, gain legitimacy. Professionalism is back
in Mode.
This point
is not quite ripe yet, but still very important. The Coronavirus could, unfortunately, increase the attractiveness of Big Data-based authoritarianism, as the Chinese government maintains. You can
I am sure that the Chinese leadership will be blamed for a lack of transparency or for reacting late to the spread of the virus. But the efficiency of their
The response and the ability of the Chinese state to control the movements and behaviour of its people are impressive. In the current crisis
citizens constantly compare the ability and efficiency of their government
with other governments. It should not surprise us if in the end
China would be the winner, and the US the loser.
Here.
is about crisis management. Governments have learned from the economic crisis, the refugee crisis and the terrorist attacks that panic is their greatest
The enemy is. When people behave in their everyday lives after a terrorist attack
and would not have left the house for months, then
that helped terrorists achieve their goals. This was also the case 2008/2009:
Behavioral changes have increased the price to be paid in the crisis. That is why the slogans of politicians and politicians like the citizens were: Stay calm, go on with your lives, ignore
the risk and does not exaggerate. But now governments must call on their populations to change their behaviour by staying at home. The success of
Governments depend very much on whether they succeed in
enough to scare them into doing so. Do not panic, that would be the
wrong response to the Covid-19 crisiYeah. To slow down the pandemic,
people should be afraid and radically change their lifestyle.
The Covid-19 crisis
will have a significant influence on the dynamics of intergenerational relations
have. In the context of the debates on climate change and its
The younger generations have accused the elderly of being selfishly
and not seriously care about the future. This dynamic is also reversing
the Coronavirus around: now the older members of society are many
more vulnerable and feel threatened by the apparent unwillingness of the
Millennials to change their lifestyle. This generational conflict could
If this crisis continues for a long time.
It will
The moment will come when governments will be forced to decide:
Either they contain the pandemic, which to destroy the
Economy leads, or they take a higher human price in order to
to save the economy.
It is still very early to discuss the political consequences of
Covid-19 to speculate. The crisis seems to legitimise the fears of opponents of globalisation:
closed airports and people in self-isolation, the Ground Zero could
of globalization. But paradoxically, a new
The anti-globalisation movement also weakens the populist actors, who may be right, but who are not the solution.
The Covid-19 crisis will in any case profoundly change how the EU
Responding to other crises that they have experienced in the past ten
has experienced years. Budgetary discipline is not even the economic
Mantra! And at the moment there is no European government to defend
Opening up borders for refugees.
How exactly the crisis the European project
We shall see how it affects. But it is already clear that the Coronavirus
Question the basic assumptions on which the EU is baseYeah.
The original was published by the European Council on Foreign Relations.
Translated by Meike Dulffe