Tass, March 19. In the case of Wuhan, Chinese doctors studied how weather affected the death rate of a new type of Colorado virus (sars-cov-2). Because of the low humidity, the temperature difference between day and night is very big, which causes the death rate of patients to rise. Experts published their conclusions in an article in the medrxiv Electronic Science Library.
"For the first time, we see the difference between temperature, maximum and minimum, and the effect of humidity on the mortality rate of covid-19, a disease, This is a new type of Colorado virus, first. TASS Our study shows that changes in temperature and humidity have a significant impact on Colorado virus mortality.
Chinese scientists from Lanzhou University and the China Meteorological Administration analyzed data collected by doctors of the Wuhan City outbreak of covid-19. From January 20 to February 29, 2020, that is, when the epidemic peaked and then began to decline.
During this period, nearly 2300 residents died in Wuhan. The doctors compared their daily death toll with the weather in the city at that timeAbout Based on these data, they tried to determine the statistical link between meteorological factors and viral mortality.
Weather and virus
Scientists' measurements show that this model does exist, making coronavirus sars-cov-2 similar to its close relatives, 4. Middle East mers fever, sars-cov-1 SARS virus and other respiratory disease pathogens.
For example, the difference between day and night temperatures increased mortality by 2.9%, while the increase in air humidity per gram per cubic centimeter decreased by about 11%. In general, these figures are comparable to the changes in mortality of various respiratory diseases caused by viruses. So it's bad habits or high pollution air.
As the scientists have emphasized, their access to models does not take into account how HIV transmission and mortality are affected by social factors, including migration and quarantine. Compared with the current data, the impact of weather on this indicator may be greater or weaker.
On the other hand, doctors believe that the existence of such a link in itself indicates the need for further observation. They believe that this information is essential to predict the development of the covid-19 pandemic in the coming months and seasonsAbout
Russian federation
There are now more than 219000 people registered worldwide. It is estimated that 9000 people were infected with the new coronavirus (sars-cov-2) in 2001. In the past decade, 180 million people have died of AIDS and more than 84000 have been treated. Human beings. The disease has been found outside China in 159 countries, including Russia.
At the end of December, a new coronavirus (covid-19) broke out in Wuhan, China. In early March, the World Health Organization recognized the spread of the disease around the world, calling covid-19 an epidemic.
The new type of coronavirus belongs to the same kind of virus as SARS and mers, i.e. SARS and the Middle East mycoplasma. In the past decade, these two viruses have claimed hundreds of lives in the Middle East and East Asia and have repeatedly caused epidemics, Spread through camels and poultry. Scientists believe that the original viral vector sars-cov-2 is bat, and there is evidence that it may be the responsibility of pangolian or snake