Just a little snuff? Nothing tastes good anymore? No more air to breathe? Infection with the new Coronavirus is not the same for all humans.
For some it feels like a cold, for others it becomes life-threatening or even deadly. The Robert Koch-Institut (RKI) in Berlin explains that general statements about the typical course of the disease are not possible.
About half of the people who have been infected would not even notice, RKI chief Lothar Wieler recently said: "We do not see them at all." Data on the complaints of the identified infected are now available from several countries and increasingly also from Germany. Some of those affected also report themselves on how they are doing with Sars-CoV-2. An overview of the features:
Rather mild events without hospital stay:
According to RKI, four out of five of the infected who notice anything have mild runs. Coughing (54 percent) and fever (40 percent) were among the most common symptoms in Germany, according to data from more than 22.000 patients.
"It is a rumor that a Sars CoV-2 infection definitely does not cause a flu," says Martin Witzenrath of the Charite Berlin Hospital for Infectiology and Pneumology, where he says more than 20 patients are currently treated with different severe conditions.
FDP politician Alexander Graf Lambsdorff told the Heidelberg "Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung" that the disease had been wave-like. He had some cold sores for a while, so cough was added. He described the symptoms as "not spectacularYeah.
As around 100 people in the particularly affected Heinsberg district of North Rhine-Westphalia have been found in domestic isolation, teams around Bonn virologist Hendrik Streeck have asked: "The most commonly described symptom was dry irritation with 70 percent, before the loss of sense of taste and smell with 68 percent and fatigue with 68 percent,"he says. But many patients also reported "runny nose", headache, muscle and throat pain, and fever. "Some of them were pretty good," says the scientist. Even diarrhoea was not uncommon, Streeck said.
According to World Health Organisation (WHO) data, mild disease progression lasts on average two weeks. According to Streeck, the disease begins after previous experience with neck scrapes or pain and often fever. And with it, like many cold diseases. Is there any indication that Covid-19 can be clearly distinguished? "The only thing that does not cause flu is this loss of taste and smell," says Streeck. Otherwise, in mild cases, "It is like a flu-like infection. Those affected would not have noticed the Sars-CoV-2 infection at all."
Chief physician Clemens Wendtner of the Munich Infectiology Clinic Schwabing, which treated the first infected in Germany at the end of January, also reports, For example, patients could not smell and taste well for several days and felt the taste of food, although their desired dish, as metallic or bitter. According to Wendtner, the impairment may occur at the very beginning and may be the first indication of a disease. Sars, too, was believed to infect scent receptors in the nose.
Heavy procedures with hospital treatment:
It is not known how many people in Germany are hospitalized or have been hospitalized because of Covid-19. In cases of scarcely 56.000 recorded in China, 14 percent was difficulYeah. At six percent, the course was critical to life-threatening, for example due to lung failure. According to the WHO, heavy runs could last between three and six weeks on average.
In patients with symptoms of the upper respiratory tract it takes four to eight days to decide whether the disease also affects the lower respiratory tract, says Witzenrath of the Charite. However, there are also patients who get pneumonia directly without first affecting the upper respiratory tract. Inflammatory pulmonary tissue means the oxygen intake is no longer working so well.
Italian doctors have indicated that there are some patients in the affected country who visit a clinic too late. RKI chief Wieler said on Wednesday, if you feel increasing breathlessness, you should consult a doctor.
According to Witzenrath, the disease picture in Covid-19 differs significantly from the previously known pneumonia. "The special thing about patients is that they sometimes have a bit of a shortage of air, not dramatic, they do not seem particularly ill at all. Then you look at the lung in the CT and it looks really bad. For example, more than half of the lung could have been damaged by the virus. The course could then deteriorate rapidly.
The doctor calls the alarm signals: "If you go up a staircase that you otherwise can handle easily, and after half notice that you clearly can't breathe, that should be thoughtful. Especially when you are older, you have a history of illness."Relatives could keep an eye on the respiratory frequency of patients: while the patient is lying in front of the TV, for example, one can"best observe"how often the chest is lifting unnoticed. "If the number is quiet over 20 or 22 per minute, this is definitely a warning signa"
Some Covid-19 patients could be treated at normal stations first, Witzenrath says. "For example, people who are supported by oxygen through a small plastic tube under the nose, and patients whose pre-illness worsens under pneumonia," the physician explains.
If patients need more oxygen, a certain oxygen therapy (High Flow) is also used in intensive care. If this is no longer sufficient, breathing through a tube in the trachea is necessary, patients will be put into a coma. "However, complications can occur with the duration of intubation," Witzenrath says. According to the data available so far, it is assumed that those affected must be ventilated in intensive care centres on average 17-day. "This is very, very long."
According to experts, the proportion of patients who need to be ventilated is difficult to say, even because of the dark number of unknown infections. The RKI calls for China: two to six percent. (dpa