India on Thursday clarified that the evacuation carried out by the government is not for "everybody". The government is carrying out assessments of countries that require the evacuation of the Indian nationals and accordingly, trying to employ its resources.
While evacuation is being planned for Iran and Italy, the people who would be able to board the aircraft would be the ones who test negative for coronavirus. No COVID-19 affected patient would be allowed to board the aircraft back home.
During the weekly briefing of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), the government-appointed coordinator for COVID19-19, Additional Secretary Dammu Ravi said, "Evacuation does not mean we will bring everybody back. We will first bring those who are not contaminated."
"Negative cases would be brought back. In Italy, the medical team will go to start screening. In Iran, medical teams are already there for the screening and medical tests are being carried out," he said.
To a question on the same in Parliament, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said, "Please understand that we can only bring them back if they are tested, they have to be tested. To test them, we've started sampling today as we can't bring back untested people in a very severe epidemic situation as I have the responsibility of this country to worry about."
The government in its travel advisory has announced that those traveling from Italy, South Korea "will need a certificate of having tested negative for COVID-19 from the designated laboratories authorised by the health authorities of these countries."
Apart from the mandatory negative certificated, there are seven countries (Iran, South Korea, China, Italy, France, Spain and Germany) from where the travellers will be quarantined. This will come into effect from 1200 GMT on March 13, 2020, at the port of departure, according to the travel advisory.
People traveling from any other country will be screened for symptoms at the airport. For those from countries other than the seven, it will be good if they come with a negative certificate. But, it is not mandatory.
To a question on travel from countries that are not part of the list of seven, Dammu Ravi said, "We would advise not to travel now. But if it is mandatory to travel then it would be convenient if they get the negative certificates."
Right now, the biggest issue is of getting the negative certificates, especially in Italy where a lot of Indian students are stranded. The officer said that testing centres would be set up in Milan and Rome.
"There are a lot of students stranded in Italy. The mission is looking into testing and then giving certificates," he said.
While India is looking at bringing back those who have not contracted the disease, to a question on what happens to those Indian nationals who have tested positive abroad, the additional secretary said, "The affected individuals are also a risk to their own countries. We have to take care of them. If Indians test positive elsewhere, we would expect the country they are in to take care of them like we are doing with the foreign nationals."
"Taking flights is risky and not an option if not essential," he added. There were Indians who had reportedly entered the country without informing of their travel history.
On being asked whether the travellers would be penalised for concealing travel history, Bureau of Immigration official Colonel Adhikari said, "There is no penalty as such. We have now started looking at all the details, including foreigners where they are going to stay, etc. If they don't reveal, they will be sent back. If Indians don't give details, they will be quarantined."
India has become very cautious of the inbound traffic from air, sea and land.
When asked if these travel restrictions would apply to Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, MHA official Anil Malik said the decision is "under process, we will let you know very soon".
The Bureau of Immigration press release read: "International traffic through land borders will be restricted to designated check posts with robust screening facilities. These will be notified separately by M/o Home Affairs."
India is also cooperating with other countries to fight this pandemic. There have been requests for medical supplies which India is looking into.
"We are helping other nations. We sent masks to China. In the neighbourhood, there are affected countries. We have received requests from Bhutan, Maldives, Iran, Italy, and China. We are processing the requests. Based on the requests and the availability, packages are being made," MEA spokesperson Raveesh Kumar said.
