Over 6,000 people have died globally since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. More than 1,62,000 have been infected by Covid-19. What started in China, soon spread across France, the US, Spain, Italy, South Korea and now India.
India, so far, has officially reported 110 cases and two deaths, according to the Ministry of Health. More cases are emerging every day even as states continue to issue advisories on social distancing.
The government has put in place stringent measures to curb the spread of the virus. A mandatory quarantine of 14 days has been initiated for all international travellers arriving in the country.
From thermal screenings at major entry-exit points to sanitisation of public places, the Indian government has put its best foot forward in battling the pandemic which has led to significant panic among Indians.
Self-discipline is the best cure
However, more than scrutinising the steps taken by the government, the utmost requirement at the moment is self-discipline.
With the threat of the rapidly spreading virus looming large over India due to its billion-plus population, it is important to understand the depravity that could be if the spread is not limited in the initial days.
Italy is the best example to map how rapidly the virus can spread and why it is absolutely essential to impose self-restrictions at an early stage, and not wait for the disaster to strike.
The country recorded 368 more deaths from the coronavirus outbreak on Sunday, its biggest single-day rise, amid growing concern about the ability of its strained health system to cope with the relentless increase in new cases. With 24,747 cases and 1,809 deaths by Sunday - a rise of 368 or 25 per cent in the death toll in just 24 hours - Italy's experience has offered an alarming example for other European countries. And, Indians should take note.
The daily rise in cases around the globe, especially in countries like Italy -- with a small population of 60 million people -- is alarming. If the virus spreads with such aggressiveness in India, it could result in severe consequences even after the virus fades away.
In Italy, hospitals are also unable to cope with such high-frequency rise on a daily basis. Roberta Re, a nurse at Piacenza hospital in Emilia-Romagna called the situation 'war-like', as reported by The Guardian.
"It's an experience I would compare to a world war, but it's a war that isn't fightable with traditional arms - as we don't yet know who the enemy is and so it's difficult to fight. The only weapon we do have to avoid things getting even worse is to stay at home and to respect the rules, to do what they did in China, as this is paying off," she said.
Precaution, not panic
With an abundance of global examples that show the severe spread of Covid-19, it can be deduced that most infections spread through lack of individual restrictions at an initial stage. And as the situation aggravated with rising cases in a country or one particular area, the excessive panic was witnessed.
This panic, if substituted by precautions at early stages, could help India avoid the health crisis of a much larger magnitude. However, the government alone would not be able to help limit the virus; all citizens must also act responsibly and take the outbreak seriously.
Social media chatter over the past few months since the outbreak has often misled people, as some took it lightly and others panicked to insanity. However, doctors advised none of the above. Instead, they asked people to be prepared with some basic but necessary precautions. Social distancing, however, is the most important one.
Three ways that you can help
1) Doctors have asked people to stay home if they absolutely do not have to go out.
2) Medical experts have also asked people to avoid any kind of large gatherings.
3) Take care of hygiene, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds and avoid touching your face
These are a few simple steps you can take to support the government in limiting the spread of Covid-19. While not much is known about this virus, doctors, have asked people to follow these important steps at the moment to delay the spread of the virus. But even if you test positive, there is no need to suppress your travel history or run away.
The quarantine process is not only for the recovery of an infected person but it is also for the safety of other people in the country. Going by the rate of spread in Italy, Iran, and China, any person with symptoms coming in contact with other people could prove deadly as the virus would keep multiplying. Even if it does not affect an individual carrying it, doctors have clearly mentioned that its spread could be fatal for older people with a weak immune system.
For instance, one of the first cases in Uttar Pradesh's Noida which led to an initial shut down of two schools and a five-star hotel, was from a man who returned from Italy and kept his travel history suppressed. He then kept on with his usual social life, exposing others to the danger.
There are many other reports in India about suspected people running away in fear that they would be kept in isolation in the quarantine facility. But people have to realise that the process will help in containing the spread of the virus to a great extent.
India is still in the initial stages with 110 official confirmed cases, and so far, it has managed to keep the death toll much lower than the other countries in the third week of the outbreak. And, by imposing self-restrictions, individuals can help the government in flattening the curve further.
People on social media, especially, the young batch who are yet to grasp the seriousness of the issue, need to be more self vigilant. The basics include - doctor visit for 'flu-like symptoms', avoiding crowded places and social gathering until absolutely necessary, restricting movement, opting for work-from-home. It is important to realise that every country initially had a mere number of cases, but within days it rose massively.
Desperate times call for desperate measures, and at this hour, more than scrutinising the steps taken by the government, it is imperative to focus on personal hygiene and self-discipline.
