A woman returns to her cosy home after a Hong Kong trip (Gwyneth Paltrow). A man is on the Metro. A bureaucrat (Yoshiaki Kobayashi) is at a high-profile meeting. All sweating. All unwell. That's how Steven Soderbergh's Contagion starts. And the resemblance to today's Covid-19-infected world is uncanny.
In this week's Throwback Thursday, we rewatch Contagion, available on Amazon Prime Video, while we're all, as a nation, a world, in quarantine.
Soderbergh paints a grim picture. A virus has taken over the world, with certain world leaders trying to downplay it, while others take it seriously enough from the word go. Everyone is at risk. Fear grows fast and thick, but it still cannot keep up with the spreading virus. The virus speeds, infects, kills you, and you can do nothing about it. If that's not the novel coronavirus, we don't know what is.
Movie buffs who've watched this 2011 masterpiece were quick to point out that the current WHO-declared pandemic bears striking resemblance to what Soderbergh had portrayed in his film. For those who haven't watched it yet, let's just call it a lowdown on everything that happened since December 2019, when China finally said, 'Houston, we have a problem.'
Watch the trailer of Contagion here:
In Contagion, the novel coronavirus spreads like wildfire, but its scientific R-0 (R is the reproductive rate of the virus, and 0 is the number of people it will affect) remains undetermined. It spreads through physical contact - or formites (touching surfaces, from doorknobs to bus handles), yes, but how do you effectively control it? The symptoms are vast and vague, ranging from the common flu to Ebola, therefore it cannot be specified. All we know is at the very last stage, a patient has seizures, foams at the mouth and is dead in a matter of seconds. (Please note: Seizures aren't a symptom of the novel coronavirus.)
Doctors (Elliott Gould) across borders are trying to formulate a vaccine, and it's a race against time, with each passing moment adding to the number of people who are succumbing to the virus. Heads of Medical Research Centres (Laurence Fishburne) send medical professionals (Kate Winslet) to research the root of the virus. But even they are infected, they die trying to save the world, and are reduced to just a body bag.
Schools have been shut, cities have gone under lockdown, grocery stores are being looted for basic amenities like cereal, and eventually, angry, hungry mobs break into houses to steal your food. They kill if they have to because survival is the only question at this point.
Along with the virus, the world is fighting misinformation. Forsinthia, a herbal immunity booster available in China is declared a cure by a blogger (Jude Law) with millions of followers. Sick patients line up for it at the drug store, and loot it when they don't get it, but even those who do aren't cured. Does it not remind you of the WhatsApp forward you received about gaumutra this week?
Some (Matt Damon) are immune to this. Their naturally strong immune system keeps them safe. But they still cannot risk exposing themselves and remain in quarantine - sealing their homes off, rubbing sanitiser on their palms every now and then.
Soderbergh's Contagion is so fast-paced that you don't realise just how much time has gone by fighting this virus, save for two dialogues. One at the beginning by a world leader reluctant to order shutting of schools, "Thanksgiving is the biggest shopping weekend; this virus couldn't have found a better time," and one towards the middle, when a tired medical researcher (Jennifer Ehle) says, "I'm going home now, Merry Christmas." And finally, you realise its time for the school prom - almost half a year has gone by.
Contagion ends on a somewhat positive note. A vaccine has been found, except it has to be systematically distributed now. Which means the creme of the crop - the rich, the bureaucrats, the celebrities - will get it first, while for the masses, a surreal, almost dystopian game of Bingo decides their fate. The ball reads March 10, so those born on this date get the vaccine, as others wait for another 144 days for the second batch of the medicine to be manufactured.
In this new normal, a wrist tag separates the vaccinated from the not. Welcome to Hotel Quarantine.
The last scene of Contagion is basically Day 1 of the story. Where it all began - an infected bat drops a morsel of food at a pig farm, it is consumed by a pigling which is then transported to a top restaurant and served on a platter to Gwyneth Paltrow in Hong Kong. And the world comes tumbling down.
The most important lesson we can learn from Contagion is that you can never be prepared. But the only thing that can get you through this, or any calamity, is level-headedness. A truckload of common sense, a large share of awareness and all the patience you can get your hands on will sail you - us - through this. Breathe.
