Novel coronavirus, now named as SARS-CoV-2, is a new pathogen. Understanding novel coronavirus is a work in progress. It may take months or even years before scientists settle for definite conclusions about how novel coronavirus infects people of different health conditions and varying age and gender groups, if at all.
Since its emergence in November-December in Chinese city of Wuhan, novel coronavirus has infected almost 3 lakh (2.94 lakh) by Monday afternoon, according to the World Heath Organisation (WHO) status update.
Almost 13,000 people have lost their lives due to complications caused by novel coronavirus infection. Seven of these deaths have happened in India. Altogether 187 countries have reported cases of novel coronavirus infection.
On the basis of confirmed cases of novel coronavirus infections, studies suggest that elderly people are more vulnerable to Covid-19 than younger people. Similarly, novel coronavirus infection has been found to be more sever among men than women.
Though studies are still on to examine the behavioural pattern of novel coronavirus inside a human body, the difference in the degree of severity of infection could be linked to a protein, scientists working on the virus have suggested.
This protein is called ACE-2 - which works for regulation of an enzyme involved with maintenance of blood pressure among other things - and it is found on many surface tissues including in lungs. What has emerged is that the novel coronavirus has an affinity for this ACE-2 protein and identifies this as its landing spot inside the human body.
Novel coronavirus has many spikes on its outer surface (see the picture). These spikes are used by the virus to hook onto ACE-2 protein and enter the cell.
Once inside the cell, novel coronavirus multiplies fast and eats up everything before forcing the cell to burst and release next generation viruses to feed on new cells. In two to ten days, there will be enough novel coronaviruses in the body to start showing symptoms like fever, dry cough and breathlessness among others.
This is believed to be the normal course of novel coronavirus infection in human body. What makes it appear differently among different people is the fact that concentration of ACE-2 protein increases in humans with age. Children and young people have fewer than the elderly ones. And, women too have less number of ACE-2 proteins than men of the same age group.
This explains why children and young people, who usually have better immunity, have reported milder infection of novel coronavirus compared to elderly ones.
However, existing medical condition could be a bigger determinant of how severe novel coronavirus infection can be in an individual irrespective of gender and age. In India, the youngest person who died after novel coronavirus infection was 38.That person had returned from Qatar and had been admitted in hospital for chronic renal failure.
