When Covid-19 cases began rising sharply in China in the second half of January, the country responded with lockdowns. It stemmed from the understanding that social distancing is the best defence against novel coronavirus pandemic.
The first lockdown in China began on January 23. Wuhan, the epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak, was cut off from rest of the world following a post-midnight order by the government. Airport, railway station, all road transport, and ferry services were suspended. Residents of Wuhan were prohibited from leaving the city without prior permission from the authorities.
Wuhan is one of the business hubs in China and the main city of Hubei, the worst-affected province. In the days to follow, a dozen more cities in Hubei province were locked down. This meant a population of 59 million or almost 6 crore was locked down in next four days.
But the Chinese authorities found it was not enough. They locked down many more cities across 18 provinces of China. A total of 233 million or more than 23 crore people were locked down to contain spread of novel coronavirus in China by the middle of February.
It was the biggest lockdown in China. Now, consider the case of India.
After Odisha announced a complete lockdown of all its 30 districts, a total of 32 states and Union Territories are in total lockdown state to control spread of novel coronavirus outbreak in India. Big states like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have imposed partial shutdown.
Officially, India has reported only 493 cases of novel coronavirus infection till 5.15 pm on Tuesday, according to status report on the ministry of health and family affairs of the central government. This includes death of nine people due to complications triggered by Covid-19.
There are 446 active Covid-19 patients who are in different hospitals. Reports in media put the number in access of 500 with Maharashtra reporting the maximum 107 cases till now.
For less than 500 Covid-19 cases, India has locked down around 600 districts across 35 states and UTs. There are 718 districts in India, around 560 of them are under complete lockdown. Close to 900 million people live in these districts, according to Census 2011, which put India's population at 1.21 billion.
In other words, roughly 75 per cent population of the country is under complete lockdown. When we include partially locked down states and districts, over 1000 million people have been locked down by the central and state governments.
Recall from above, China with more than 81,600 cases of Covid-19 and 3,276 deaths locked down 'only' 23 crore people or about 16.5 per cent of its total population. India has locked down 100 crore or more than 82.5 per cent of its population.
There is, however, another difference. In Chinese cities, for example, Wuhan, the residents were allowed to come out of their homes only once in two days for purchase of essential items.
In India, except states like Punjab and Haryana which have imposed a statewide curfew, the lockdown rules allow certain classes of people to go to work, and everyone is allowed to go out of homes to buy the essentials.
