Here's what you need to know about the coronavirus epidemic today:
TESTING TIMES
The only question then becomes how public health authorities cope with all the confirmed cases that emerge.
US Democrats are nonetheless insisting that Americans must be fully encouraged to go for tests if the economic aid package going through Congress is to get their backing.
President Donald Trump tweeted earlier that coronavirus testing in the United States will soon happen on a large scale, but did not provide any details on how that would be accomplished. All eyes are on whether a deal could finally emerge later today.
.... Their response to H1N1 Swine Flu was a full scale disaster, with thousands dying, and nothing meaningful done to fix the testing problem, until now. The changes have been made and testing will soon happen on a very large scale basis. All Red Tape has been cut, ready to go!
KEEP CALM AND CARRY ON
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's government is facing an onslaught of domestic criticism over its coronavirus strategy, which has so far eschewed the social distancing measures - schools closures, public gathering bans and the like - which are now prevalent across much of continental Europe.
The British logic, based on the findings of behavioral research, is that timing is all:
Yet that is not stopping many Brits from going down into lockdown mode themselves - witness evidence of stockpiling and emptier than usual roads and public transport. Pasta, toilet paper, flour and frozen food are all flying off the shelves.
FEAR, PANIC, HOPE ON THE MARKETS
Financial markets now appear to be finding some solace in hopes for more economic stimulus after plumbing the depths of despair earlier this week. The benchmark of European stocks gained a modest 2.6 per cent on Friday after the 12 per cent crash on Thursday that erased over $1 trillion from the value of European firms and plunged global equities into a bear market.
The expectation now is that governments will take emergency measures, including boosting liquidity, after the Fed injected $500 billion into the banking system in the States. Australia's central bank followed suit on Friday, pumping $5.52 billion into its daily money market operation.
THE SPREAD
There are now almost 1,35,000 cases and more than 4,900 deaths form coronavirus recorded in 125 countries and regions, according to a Reuters tally on Friday. Experts say many more cases are either unreported or undetected.
China's Wuhan city, ground zero of the coronavirus outbreak, reported five new cases on Friday, the second day in a row the tally has been less than 10, while no locally transmitted infections were reported in the rest of the country.
