As of March 18, India has 139 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) which is believed to have originated from the Wuhan city in China's Hubei province sometime in December of last year.
The novel coronavirus has led to three deaths across India, with the first being that of a 76-year-old man in Karnataka's Kalaburagi, the second a 68-year-old woman in Delhi and the third being a 64-year-old man who succumbed to the infection in Mumbai on Tuesday.
In an exclusive interview with India Today TV's Rajdeep Sardesai, the Director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Dr Randeep Guleria answers all the questions regarding Covid-19 and what can be done to safeguard oneself from the infection.
Dr Guleria: Even if you have a fever and a severe cough, or a sore throat, you still need not get tested as of now unless you fit in two criteria. The first criteria is whether you have travelled abroad in the last 14 days, especially to a country where an outbreak of novel coronavirus is happening or you have come in close contact with a laboratory-confirmed case of Covid-19.
Dr Guleria: This is what we call the incubation period. It usually takes between 2-7 days but it varies upto 14 days. Rarely, it has been reported that sometimes it can take even longer but in most patients, within 5-7 days symptoms will start to appear in the form of fever, cough and sore throat.
Dr Guleria: Everyone need not wear a mask. It is important to understand that if you have cough and cold, you should wear a mask so that you don't transmit the infection to others. If you are a healthcare worker looking after patients, it's worthwhile to wear a mask. Otherwise, a common person going out for day-to-day work or is at home or even going out for sometime need not wear a mask, it does not protect you. Sometimes it can be harmful because you might end up touching your face to re-adjust the mask and end up transmitting a disease from an infected surface on to your face using your hands.
Dr Guleria: Those with asthma need not necessarily wear masks. However, they need to wash their hands regularly and maintain social distancing apart from avoiding crowded place.
Dr Guleria: If you have come in contact who is infected, it is important to start the process of self-quarantine because you could get the infection or end up transmitting it.
Dr Guleria: It's safe to visit hospitals because patients infected with novel coronavirus are being kept in isolation wards. However, one must not visit the hospital at this time unless it is absolutely necessary. Routine healthcare visits should be postponed.
Dr Guleria: My feeling is that it would not. It might decrease the transmissibility of the virus. We still have cases in tropical countries like Singapore and Thailand. A large number of us spend a lot of time inside the house or shopping malls, areas which are air-conditioned. And here the temperature is low and there is crowding. If one person has the infection and he is coughing, the person can spread the virus.
Dr Guleria: As of now, till we are not sure about the resolution of this pandemic, I would say that we should take to the process of social distancing.
Dr Guleria: This is a viral infection unlike swine flu or H1N1 but once you are exposed to the infection, there is a chance of getting it again. Once you get the infection, there are anti-bodies produced in the body which protect you against subsequent infection or make it less severe. If you get exposed to novel coronavirus later on, it will be a mild infection.
Dr Guleria: The UK is following a similar model where it is allowing the infection to spread to the community but protect the high-risk groups (elderly, diabetic, hypertension, heart or respiratory issues). Since the mortality in the younger age group is very low, you may have a large number of individuals who may get the infection and cause herd immunity and therefore, you might not have a very large outbreak.
However, young people can still transmit the disease to the elderly which is why herd community can create problems in a country like India.
Dr Guleria: There is no evidence to support that yoga or pranayam or ayurvedic or homeopathic drugs are effective as far as treatment of Covid-19 is concerned.
Dr Guleria: Blood donors are not tested for novel coronavirus. It is important to understand that this is a novel coronavirus which was not there as far as humans are concerned as of last year. It is an animal virus that mutated and jumped species and became a human virus and it also developed the ability to sustain human-human spread. But the chances of it being significantly present in the blood are low; it is mainly in the upper-respiratory fact. Blood testing is not required for healthy people as of now.
Dr Guleria: Neither sipping hot water nor consumption of alcohol will kill the virus. Alcohol-based sanitizers kill the virus on your hands but once in your throat, the virus infects the cells and alcohol cannot help there.
Dr Guleria: If you can use soap with water, it is a better thing. One uses soap more thoroughly and it helps clear the virus in between the fingers and under the nails. If you do not have soap, use hand sanitizer but clean your hands thoroughly and regularly.
Dr Guleria: One of the ways the novel coronavirus spreads is through droplet infection. Droplet means that it is in the air for some time and people who come in close contact with someone who has the infection get infected. But these droplets also settle on surfaces and touching these surfaces can lead to infection. If someone infected with novel coronavirus touches a doorknob with his hands, the infection will settle on the doorknob for a few hours and it is a good idea to clean it.
Dr Guleria: Depends on the surface. Some data suggests that it can survive on cardboard for a few hours or other surfaces which are metal-based and especially if the temperature is low and the humidity is high, it may even survive 6-8 hours. That is why it is important to regularly wash hours.
Dr Guleria: If you touch the cough droplet on your clothes with your hands and then touch your face, it can lead to infection. Touching one's face should be avoided. The cough droplet cannot reach one's respiratory tract by itself.
Dr Guleria: There is no evidence right now. Eating well-cooked non-vegetarian food outside or at home poses no risk of coronavirus.
Dr Guleria: There is no data suggesting that like swine flu, pregnant woman are at a higher risk. Pregnant women should avoid crowded areas.
Dr Guleria: One should avoid non-essential travel. If you are travelling, regular hand washing is important.
Dr Guleria: Whatever data we have from China suggests that some groups are at a higher risk. These include elderly; those above the age of 60 have more severe infection. People with co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic heart or respiratory diseases are also at a higher risk and need to be extra careful.
Dr Guleria: Global trends suggest that the infection is still on the rise and has not reached a plateau. The number of cases is rising all over the world. There will be rise over the next few weeks until that plateau is reached and then we will see a downward trend as can be seen in China and South Korea.
Dr Guleria: There is no data to suggest this.
Dr Guleria: Smoking does decrease the respiratory defence mechanism and therefore, the recovery does slow down. I would advise people to either decrease or quit smoking.
Dr Guleria: We are in a better place but it is not over now and we need to be vigilant. The next few weeks are very crucial because we may see a sudden spike in the number of cases.
