Articles and official reports on the new coronavirus are full of terms that most of us don't use daily. Some of them -- Covid-19, for example -- were coined only after the virus emerged in China. Our simple glossary aims to unclutter this specialised vocabulary and help you better understand your news feed. Is there a coronavirus-related term that you'd like to see explained but is not on this list? Let us know in the comments section.
Let's begin.
Coronavirus 
Covid-19
Mortality (or fatality) rate 
This is the percentage of infected people who die. We still can't say with certainty what this number is for the new coronavirus disease, but here are a couple of estimates. On March 3, the World Health Organisation reported a global mortality rate of 3.4%, suggesting the disease is deadlier than the seasonal flu (with a death rate less than 1%). Two past epidemics caused by coronaviruses, MERS and SARS, had much higher mortality rates. (Soon after WHO announced the 3.4 figure, US President Donald Trump raised an eyebrow or two with his "hunch" that it was a "false number".)
In February, a study of 44,672 confirmed cases in Mainland China said 2.3 per cent had died. But the rate showed significant variation with age. It was 14.8 per cent for the 80+ category, and just 0.2% for the 10-19, 20-29 and 30-39 groups. It was also higher for men (2.8%) than for women (1.7%).
Pandemic
Public Health Emergency of International Concern
On January 30, the World Health Organisation declared the coronavirus outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern -- an "extraordinary event" posing a "public health risk to other States through the international spread of disease" and potentially needing "a coordinated international response". This doesn't happen often: it was only the sixth such declaration made by WHO. When confronted with a PHEIC, a group of experts advises the UN body's director-general (currently Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus of Ethiopia) on measures to be implemented in the disease-hit country and elsewhere.
Sars-CoV-2
Short for "severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2", this is the name of the new coronavirus. It was announced on February 11. Don't confuse it with the virus that caused the outbreak of SARS in the early 2000s. "While related, the two viruses are different," the World Health Organisation explains.
