The 18th Portuguese and the two Brazilian women who were quarantined at Pulido Valente Hospital in Lisbon, due to the Covid-19 coronavirus, have already left the hospital unit.
Before they left, they had a meeting with the Health Minister, Martha Temido, and the Director General of Health, Grace Freitas.
The two Brazilian athletes who were in quarantine thanked the exit for their care. In statements to journalists, one of them said:'The Government of Portugal, the hospital, everyone treated us very well'. In the next few days they will return home to Brazil, to families with whom they said they have been in permanent contact.
Since the beginning of the month, the 20-citizens were established at the Pulido Valente Hospital (hospital in Lisbon Norte), in a voluntary isolation that has essentially been preventative.
"The last few days were of great impatience, not only because the end of the quarantine was approaching, but also because we were going to take new examinations. Everything went fine. We're all in good health and now we're just going to enjoy the next few days. We are all very happy,"he said to the PUBLIC Luis Estanislau, who had lived for a year and a half in Wuhan, China, an epicenter of the virus, where he was the assistant trainer of Hubei Chufeng Heli, a club in the second Chinese soccer league.
On Thursday, the inmates took new tests and "the laboratory tests carried out by the National Institute of Health Dr. Ricardo Jorge, with two biological samples, were all negative".
At a press conference this Saturday afternoon, Grace Freitas assured me that citizens who were in quarantine will be able to return to their normal livesYeah. "After this period of prophylactic isolation, which lasted four days from the date and time when the plane left the city of Wuhan, these people are exactly the same as the others, fortunately not ill and there was no positive test. They will be able to return to their lives without restriction,"he said.
At a point on the Covid-19 coronavirus, the Director General of Health assured her that she "liked" the mood of the 18 Portuguese and two Brazilian people. "They were excited, well-disposed and pleased to end the isolation. There was a great deal of interaction and fellowship between people and professionals there,"he said. Grace Nunras also stressed that the 20 citizens were "very pleased" that Portugal had picked them up from China.
Despite stating that each case serves to "fine-tune certain procedures", the Director-General of Health stated that the approach to Covid-19 has been a success. "Everything in Portugal has gone well. Those who need to be left in prophylactic isolation have stayed, diagnostic tests and support line work, doctors and health professionals are alert to diagnosis, citizens are behaving appropriately and there is no panic", he said.
Nevertheless, the person responsible said that there are differences between a suspicious case in Lisbon and other parts of the country. "The time for analysis in Lisbon is faster as samples go to the Ricardo Jorge Institute. It is different from a case that comes from Porto,"the Director-General of Health said.
Grace Freitas stated that Curry Cabral Hospital in Lisbon is ready to receive adults with symptoms related to the new coronavirus and Dona Estefania Hospital, also in the capital, is prepared to receive children. In the North region, St John's Hospital in Oporto receives both groups. This Monday, the DGS is to obtain a list of all national hospitals with isolation rooms availableYeah.
The DGS officer stated that Portugal has been collaborating with international authorities through the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and has asked Portuguese citizens again to "discriminate no one according to their origin".
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
Grace Freitas stressed that it is not possible to anticipate what will happen in the next few days in relation to the new coronavirus. "It is only when we understand the chain of transmission, the incubation period and the total time when people are infectious that we will be able to understand what their impact will be," said the responsible party, ensuring that DGS keeps time to time what is happening in China and the rest of the world.
Regarding the two Chinese students from the Braganza Polytechnic Institute (IPB) who are returning from China, Grace Freitas stated that the local health authorities will follow both cases and stressed that only those who have symptoms or come from the Hubei region, epicentre of the outbreak, will be subjected to tests and subsequent quarantine