Portugal has had, in the last 24-hour period, 27 new cases suspected of infection with the new coronavirus (Covid-19), totalling 52 until this Thursday, of which 16 are awaiting laboratory results, indicated Directorate-General for Health (DGS). The data are contained in the epidemiological newsletter of Covid-19, which did not report any cases of infection with the new coronavirus in Portugal until 19pm this Thursday.
From the total of new suspect cases, 26 are citizens from northern Italy and one from Japan. According to the daily newsletter, released after 20h00, Portugal has reported 52 suspicious cases, of which 36 have resulted negative after laboratory tests.
The daily number of new suspicious cases increased today, as on Wednesday, the day the epidemiological newsletter for Covid-19 was released, Portugal had recorded eight new suspect cases in the 24-hour previous hours, all coming from northern Italy.
The DGS reiterated today that, "in view of the worldwide epidemiological situation, it is necessary to consider the possibility of importing cases of illness from citizens from China or other areas with active Community transmission", namely northern Italy, South Korea, Singapore, Japan or Iran.
The risk to public health in Portugal is considered to be moderate to high, according to Directorate-General for Health, which promises to publish the daily epidemiological report of Covid-19 by 18:00, which has not happened today.
Covid-19, detected in December in China and which may cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, has already caused more than 2.800 dead and has infected over eight thousand people, according to data reported by 48 countries and territories. Of the infected, over a 33 thousand have recovered.
In addition to the deaths of two.744 in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, South Korea, Italy, Japan, the Philippines, France, Hong Kong and TaiwanYeah.
The only known case of a Portuguese infected by Covid-19 is that of a crew member of a cruise ship who was admitted to a Japanese city hospital in Okazaki, situated about 300 kilometers southwest of Tokyo.
The World Health Organisation declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and warned of a possible pandemic following a sudden increase in cases in Italy, South Korea and Iran