Patients who have been discharged after contamination with the new coronavirus must be quarantined four days at home after recovering from the disease, recommended the National Health Commission of China.
According to a guide intended for the recovered persons, patients should remain quarantined in their homes for 14 days while hospitals should prepare to receive them after that period for re-evaluation.
Health institutions should also advise patients on how to conduct this quarantine after they have passed Covid-19, adds the health committee of this Asian country.
Specifically, the committee suggests that people stay indoors in well-ventilated, isolated rooms and wash their hands regularly.
The committee also recommends that seriously affected cities such as Wuhan, the capital of the Hubei province where the new coronavirus was detected, should be prepared to offer medical observation, rehabilitation and care services to patients who have been discharged.
Last Thursday, China declared that the peak of infection had come to an end even though it did not lift the restrictions and prevention measures that keep the country almost still.
According to the latest data from the National Health Commission, until midnight on Friday, the new cases of contagion were limited to 11 across China during the previous 24-hour period.
Hubei accounted for four of these 11 cases, while the other seven were considered "imported", as citizens from other parts of the planet where the virus continues to spread in China, with foci, in particular, in Japan, South Korea, Iran, Italy, and to a lesser extent, in countries such as Spain, have been diagnosed in China, France and Germany.
The total deaths in China are recorded in 3.189 persons while the number of infected registered to date makes 80.824 people.
Official data also state that 6.541 patients have been released from China since the pandemic began.
Symptoms of the new coronavirus are very similar to those of a flu, however fever and fatigue, dry cough and difficulty breathing may be followed