The Spanish Prime Minister, Pedro Sanchez, made an appeal in Parliament this Wednesday to'political unity'and called on all representatives of the Spanish parties to contribute to combating the covid-19 with'maximum vision' and'sense of state'.
The head of the Government, the Spanish Socialist Workers'Party (PSOE), appeared before the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies (Lower House of Parliament) in an almost empty Chamber, with only about thirty Members on the benches, as the majority did not attend to prevent the outbreak of the pandemic.
The session without the presence of journalists or public in the galleries was convened to Sanchez to explain to the House, as provided for in the Spanish Constitution, the reasons why the Government declared a'state of emergency'to deal with the new coronavirus.
Peter Sanchez stressed that the pandemic does not distinguish between colors or ideologies and is an "enemy of all" and therefore must be fought "through unity and collective responsibility".
The head of government stressed that with this crisis the preferences and priorities "have changed" and as political leaders everyone is subject to "the highest level of citizen demand".
"Just as we demand discipline from all citizens, we must strive to be equal to our citizens by giving all our effort and time" and contributing to this sense of state, the chief executive said.
The leader of the largest opposition party, Pablo Casado of the People's Party (PP, right), then assured Sanchez that he was not "alone" to face the coronavirus pandemic and that he could count on support for its formation.
Married couples assured Sanchez that if he found it difficult to adopt difficult measures that might not be accepted by the United Left-wing coalition We can, PSOE partners in the Spanish executivYeah.
The Spanish Prime Minister also warned that the hardest part of the crisis is "yet to come" when the health system "receives the impact of a greater number of infected people".
"Until the vaccine arrives, we are the vaccine", said Sanchez, who appealed to the unity of citizens, called for "sacrifice and unity" and insisted that each person who stays home "helps save lives and helps the curve [from the pandemic] descend.
"Each of us is the barrier that can stop this fire and put an end to it as soon as possible," he said.
The head of the government has also ensured that the food supply is guaranteed, as well as electricity, gas and oil-derived fuels.
Sanchez conveyed a message of "absolute tranquility" to emphasize the guarantee of food supply "in all supermarkets and shops" opened for this purpose.
Energy supply and "critical infrastructure" are also guaranteed to ensure "protection of essential services".
The Prime Minister began by explaining the measures taken in the context of the current "state of emergency" which he announced on Tuesday where 200 billion euro, almost 20% of GDP, is mobilised to combat the economic and social effects in the country of the Covid-19 pandemic caused by the new coronavirus.
Sanchez stressed that the package of measures to combat the new coronavirus approved in the Council of Ministers that from that total amount, "the largest mobilisation of economic resources in the recent history of Spain", 117 billion will be "entirely public" and the remaining private ones.
Spain is one of the countries most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and has registered until Tuesday 11.178 positive cases since the outbreak began, from which 491 people died and 1.098 were cured.
The coronavirus responsible for Covid-19's pandemic infected more than 189 thousand people, more than 7.800 dead.
Of infected people around the world, over eight thousand have recovered from the diseasYeah.
The outbreak began in China in December and spread over 146 countries and territories, which led the World Health Organization (WHO) to declare a pandemic situation.
The countries most affected after China are Italy, with two.503 deaths for 31.506 cases, Iran, with 988 deaths (16.169 cases), Spain, with 491 deaths (11.178 cases) and France with 148 deaths (6.633 cases).
Due to the advance of the pandemic, several countries have adopted exceptional measures, including the quarantine regime and the closure of borders