This Monday the government will publish a doorway from the Ministry of Labour to ensure that workers from the public and private sector who will be quarantined because of the new coronavirus are treated equally, the Prime Minister said today.
"The treatment will be the same for all", said Antonio Costa in statements to journalists, after a visit to the Health and 24 contact centre in Lisbon, on the day when the first cases of infection in Portugal with the new coronavirus (Covid-19) were confirmed.
The head of the government said that this afternoon the Minister of the Economy, Siza Vieira, is meeting with business associations and that the Minister of Labour'has a ready door'and'awaits the end of this meeting' to publish it.
"What is guaranteed to all professionals, whether in the public sector or in the private sector, is that if necessary" a person "remains at home", a mechanism will be set in motion corresponding to the casualty mechanism, so that everyone can have their rights guaranteed,"he said.
The Covid-19 outbreak, detected in December in China, which can cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, has caused more than 3000 deaths and has infected nearly 90 thousand people in 67 countries, including two in Portugal.
From infected people, about 45 thousand recovered.
In addition to 2912 dead in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States of America and the Philippines.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
A Portuguese crewman of a cruise ship is hospitalized in Japan with confirmation of infection.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and increased the risk to "very highYeah.
In Portugal, the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) confirmed the first two cases of infection in Portugal, a 66-year-old man and a 33-year-old man, admitted to Porto hospitals