All right. This is how Grace Freitas, the Director General of Health, began the argument in favor of social detachment, as if to say something that was hard to hear.
"Well, we're all affectionate, and we kiss each other hugely and embrace each other immensely. Throughout the day we hugged and kissed a lot of people. It's a habit. At this point we must have some restraint in these direct physical acts. We are asking for common sense measures,"he said on Friday, at another press conference to report on Covid-19's suspicions and evolution in Portugal (the live blog of Expresso AQUI).
According to Johns Hopkins Institute, which monitors the progress of cases (AQUI), more than 90 thousand cases have been confirmed, resulting in 3117 deaths and over 48 thousand cured. The threat of spreading remains strong: the European Commission announced that it increased the risk of'moderate'to'high'; the World Health Organisation had already done so before. Countries gather tools and knowledge, trying to contain the spread of Covid-19, the coronavirus that originated in December in Wuhan, a city in Hubei province in central China.
If doctors, scientists and researchers try to do their part, finding out how to stop the animal, it remains to recommend to the population some "common sense" measures, as Grace Freitas said. And that goes through that social detachment. Or, as the Guardian calls it this Tuesday, a "new label" to stop the pandemic.
Angela Merkel, the still German chancellor, has already fallen victim to this new way of being...
It is precisely with this case that the text of the British diary begins. Horst Seehofer, the German Minister of the Interior, refused to greet Merkel at a meeting of the Executive. Merkel took that kind of "good time" with sportsmanship and even seems to admit that it is sensiblYeah. The governess's aide crosses her hands at the chest, innovating in the fulfillment. We hear laughter.
Is Covid-19 changing the way we interact with each other? The political wind at least goes in that direction. Merkel suffered on his skin (in fact, it was without contact). Will we s e e fewer handshakes, kisses and hugs? Maybe
In Italy, the Guardian continues, the special Commissioner for the fight against the virus suggested that Italians should be "a little less expansive". In France it was Olivier Veran, the Minister of Health, who advised the people to kiss and hug less. In the United Kingdom it has not yet com e this far, according to this diary, but Paul Cosford, a professor and medical director emeritus of Public Health England, a department of the British Ministry of Health, has admitted that, although not against handshakes, the inevitable day will come: to reduce social contact.
But the most disturbing text in "The Guardian" is in the paragraph in which the medical officer at Anglia Ruskin University says, "Science says that handshakes are gross." Nicky Milner reveals that our hands carry on average 3200 bacteria of 150 different species. Plus, on average we give 15 thousand handshakes during our lifetime.
Sylvie Briand, the director for WHO's pandemic diseases, said it was time to adapt to Covid-19. What? Greeting each other with a mere nod, or contact with the elbow (as today is done with the fist, the popular fist pump), or the Thai way, joining hands and bowing. There is another way: touch with your foot.
What does the DGS recommend