A lot is written (and read) about how the new coronavirus is forcing us to live in survival mode. They change the rules and routines, which force us to change priorities and elect new products as essential. Surgical masks, disinfectant gel and ethyl alcohol exhaust or reach exorbitant prices. It would hardly ever occur to us that these items would be as rare and expensive as those of luxury brands.
The change in priorities is clear on a day-to-day basis and also in the industry that is the first to suffer from Covid-19 when the virus is still confined to China. In January, the shops are closed in the country that most buys and grows in luxury product sales. Stock relocation to other regions, the bet on e-commerce and digital communication are the first measures taken when the coronavirus starts to target only China. From January to March, the outbreak takes on unimaginable dimensions and similar decisions are made.
With the consumption priorities changed, luxury is having gel to disinfect hands
R.D.
On Sunday (15th in March), the LVMH group announces the start of the manufacture of disinfectant gel in its perfume production lines in France, which it controls directly. The aim is to provide free of charge to French public hospitals (especially those in Paris), the most scarce (and desired) article in times of pandemic. The perfumes of the Guerlain brands, Acqua di Parma, Christian Dior and Givenchy, for example, stop being produced to give priority to a more valuable good for an indefinite time. This weekend, the Miroglio textile group also announces its contribution in the fight against the spread of the coronavirus, but does not have the medi a impact of what is achieved by LVMH, which has the world's largest luxury brand, Louis VuittoYeah. The Italian group (which holds Elena Miro, among other brands) is producing masks in reusable sanitary fabric to provide health authorities in Piedmont, Italy.
We applaud and thank you for these initiatives. Not only who benefits from these precious products, but also everyone, as an example of what an industry (traditionally with its back to the majorities) can do for the common good and lead other companies to go along with it. In a more cynical and economical view, the decision can also be seen as positioning. In the fire at Notre-Dame Cathedral in April 2019, LVMH is one of the first to announce a donation for its reconstruction, which at the time is criticised for being seen as a marketing stunt. In fact, the relationship with luxury brands is strongly emotional and it is marketing that makes the visibility and sales wheel spin, as a result. On the other hand, millennial and Z generations (the ones that grow most in luxury consumption) value sustainability and social responsibility, factors that they consider determinant in choosing one brand over another.
The Rolls Royce plant is cooperating in the production of hospital fans
R.D.
Being the first to freely provide production facilities for coronavirus control gives the world's largest luxury group a competitive advantage in terms of notoriety and places it at the heart of consumers. It is a move of anticipation, when luxury is having disinfectant gel, surgical masks and ethyl alcohol, and the priorities are reversed indefinitely. Coty and L'Oral are other luxury perfumery groups that throughout this week are available to manufacture disinfectant gel. At the same time, Inditex (Zara) is making hospital gowns and, in China, Foxconn (who assembles iPhones) and General Shanghai Motors (Cadillac producer, for example) are producing surgical maskYeah. In England, Rolls Royce offers to contribute and Boris Johnson, the British Prime Minister, asks him to collaborate in the production of hospital fans, the same task he assigns to Jaguar Land Rover and Vauxhall.
It appears that more companies offer themselves or are forced to adjust production lines to the general state of emergency. The question remains to be answered as to the viability of these businesses (by producing for free and continuing to pay the employees), particularly in the luxury industry, which is already devastated by the initial phase of the coronavirus in China. Only between January and mid-February did luxury brands lose about a billion in sales, according to a study by BCG consultant and asset manager Bernstein. When you count dead and infected (and shops are closed), the concern is not to sell more, but to contribute to public health and to maintain proximity to what matters most. Not with what is dispensable (and which no one buys), but with the new luxury defined by the new circumstance: survival