The Portuguese Nurses Union (SEP) called an urgent meeting of the Minister of Health to discuss better working conditions for these professionals in order to cope with the Covid-19 pandemic, was announced this Friday.
Recalling that nurses are professionals who are "at the forefront in accessing, providing care, supporting users and family members, teaching and treating patients", SEP warns of the need for means that the current time requires, Among which better working conditions the union has demanded and which remain unresolved, is the statement.
"The moment of exception we live in makes these demands even more urgent and there are many reports of a lack of material and lack of knowledge of institutional contingency plans," said the trade union leader Guadalupe Simon.
In this context, SEP requested an urgent meeting of the Health Minister to discuss the engagement of nurses, the lack of material and the impact of school closures on nurses'activities.
The new Covid-19 coronavirus was detected in December in China and has caused more than five.000 deaths around the world, leading the World Health Organisation (WHO) to declare the disease a pandemic.
The number of infected people exceeded the 134 thousand people, with cases registered in more than 120 countries and territories, including Portugal, which has 112 confirmed cases.
Due to the advance of the pandemic, several countries have adopted exceptional measures, including the quarantine regime initially decreed by China in the outbreak zone.
Italy is the most serious case after China, with more than 15.000 infected and at least 1.016 dead, which led the government to enact quarantine throughout the countryYeah.
In Portugal, the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) updated this Friday the number of infected people and registered the largest increase in a day (34) by moving from 78 to 112, of which 107 are admitted.
The North region, with 53 infected, continues to have the largest number of confirmed cases followed by Great Lisbon, whose registration has doubled to 46, while the Centre and Algarve regions each have six confirmed cases. In addition to these, there is a case flagged by DGS abroad.
The epidemiological report also points out that since the outbreak, the DGS has reported one.308 suspicious cases (more than twice as many as Thursday) and has maintained 5.674 contacts in surveillance.
On Thursday, the government announced that schools of all degrees of education will suspend face-to-face school activities from Monday due to the outbreak of Covid-19.
Several universities and other schools had already decided to suspend school activities.
The government also decided to declare a state of alert throughout the country, putting civil protection facilities and security forces and services on standby.
restrictions on the operation of discos and the like, bans on the landing of passengers from cruise ships, except residents in Portugal, the suspension of visits to homes throughout the national territory and the establishment of frequency limitations in shopping centres and supermarkets to ensure the possibility of maintaining safe distance were other measures adopted