A major clinical trial has just been launched to test four experimental treatments against coronavirus in several European countries. This Wednesday the French news agency AFP reports. The Discorevry test, launched on Sunday, must include 3.200 European patients in France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom, Germany and Spain, and may reach other countries.
Each patient receives one of the four treatments randomly chosen by a computer. It's not the doctor's call. This proves the test", explained at a press conference Florence Ader, infectious at the Red Cross Hospital in Lyon, which leads the project.
In France, experience covers 800 participants. Patients who are hospitalised in infectious disease and resuscitation services are only eligible. These are patients who have respiratory symptoms, such as pneumonia, and/or who need an oxygen support, Ader had to.
The treatment was given to them quickly because "a delay in the beginning of treatment seems to be an important factor in this disease", according to infectivity. The further you advance into the disease, the less important the presence of the virus is." If we want an antiviral effect on a molecule, it should be administered very early", added Bruno Lina, a professor of biology in Lyon.
At issue is an antiviral designed initially for the Ebola virus, but which has "a wider range", because it "interacts with other viruses and is able to block the reproduction of this new coronavirus", stated Bruno Lina. We expect a lot from this molecule, because "the first in vitro results were very good", commented the virologist.
It is also about'recycling'an HIV medicine, which consists of'blocking the reproduction of the virus', according to the researcher: "We understand that it works in the test tube"Yeah. This combination has already been tested in China, but with mixed results because many patients were "included too late", sometimes beyond the tenth day of the disease, Lina said.
The Discovery test, released much earlier in the evolution of the covid-19, will be complementary to the Chinese test. This association is considered interesting, given that the disease comprises two phases: A virological phase in which antivirals are thought to have an important effect, and a phase with "inflammatory syndrome", may cause damage to the lung system and in which it is hoped to block the inflammatory process, the expert explained.
The fourth treatment, cousin of chloroquine, anti-malaria medicine which has sparked many debates, is not expected to start. It was added at the request of the World Health Organisation and the French State.
"It seemed logical to add this because we were provided with recent data, namely a Chinese article published in March 09 in the largest journal of American infectivity, which presents a considerable number of interesting arguments", justified Florence Ader.
In France, the first treatments began on Sunday at Bichat Hospital in Paris and CHU in Lyon. The selection of hospitals has been made "according to the cartography of the epidemic" and recruitment of the 800 French patients will be completed "as soon as possible".
In the other countries, "it will be up to each country to carry out its own tests", said Ader. The first clinical evaluation will take place on the 15th day of treatment, and "in the following weeks results will begin", he predicted. As soon as the test demonstrates "the superiority of one of the four treatment schemes", researchers intend to suggest to regulators in France and the world that they use itYeah.
The treatment could be released "very quickly", considering that the population is in a "therapeutic need", they underlined, however, calling for "prudence" until the effects are known.
The new coronavirus, responsible for the pandemic of the dim-19, has already infected nearly 428.000 people around the world, of whom more than 19.000 have died. After appearing in China in December, the outbreak spread throughout the world, leading the WHO to declare a pandemic situation.
The European continent, with more than 226.000 infected, is the one where the largest number of cases are currently emerging. Italy is the country of the world with the most casualties, with 6.820 killed in 69.176 cases recorded until Tuesday.
In Portugal, there are 43 deaths, more 10 than before (+30,3%), and 2.995 confirmed infections, according to the assessment made today by the Directorate-General for Health, which registers 633 new cases in relation to Tuesday (+26,8%.