The coronavirus continues to spread rampantly: the Chinese National Health Commission (CNSC) announced new cases and 105 deaths this Monday. The number of deaths decreased compared to the day before, when 142 deaths were reported, but the number of infected remains stable.
All in all, there are more than 70.500 infected people in China at the moment- and already 1.770 have died. On a global level, only four deaths occurred outside China. On Sunday, a Chinese citizen of 80-year-old died in France on holiday- the first death on European soil that is recorded.
As has happened in recent weeks, the vast majority of new infections and deaths occurred in Hubei province, where the outbreak began. CNSC also advanced the deaths of three citizens in Henan Province and two in Guangdong Province, a region adjacent to Hong Kong, according to "The New York Times".
While the number of infected with Covid-19 continues to increase on the Diamond Princess cruise in Yokohama, another tourist ship has become a world-wide alert. On Thursday, in Cambodia, more than a thousand passengers landed from the Westerdam cruise that may be infected, which could cause the epidemic to spread worldwide.
On the way out of Westerdam, passengers were greeted with flowers and graced by the presence of the country's Prime Minister. Only two days later, on Saturday, a passenger who had been on the cruise -an American citizen, was stopped on thermal scanners at Kuala Lumpur airport in Malaysia. After tests, it was learned that the citizen was infected with the coronavirus.
According to the "New York Times", it is unclear how well the outgoing cruise passengers were testedYeah. In order to contain the virus, however, it will be necessary to locate the citizens and the places where they have spread in the meantime. A herculean task at least.
Tension in Hong Kong from the Covid-19 outbreak is running high. And the scarcity of assets is causing singular episodes. According to the Guardian this Monday, a group of three armed robbers stole hundreds of rolls of toilet paper yesterday: they stopped a cargo van and threatened the driver with knives.
Toilet paper is one of the many goods missing in the region due to the outbreak. The robbers took about 130 dollars in toilet paper. There is now the fear of a climate of hysteria in the region: the citizens of Hong Kong still remember the 299 deaths in 2003 due to the SARS outbreak.
According to police, the robbery took place in Mong Kok district, a locality with a history of robberies associated with criminal movements such as the triads