Twenty people repatriated from France, who arrived in Marseille this Sunday from the Chinese city of Wuhan, the focus of the new coronavirus, will carry out medical examinations immediately, as they are showing symptoms of a possible contagion.
These returnees arrived this Sunday at the Istres Air Base, south of Marseille, on board the second aircraft they had passed on French from Wuhan. The first plane arrived in France on Friday.
French Health Minister Agnes Buzyn has explained that passengers who have experienced symptoms of a possible contagion will stay on the runway at the air base "under military medical supervision" until they get the test results.
Among the 20 people are French and non-European citizens, she added.
If the results are positive, patients will be immediately sent to a hospital, she said.
In the event of a negative result, the returnees will be transported to a holiday centre in the region, where the first 100 French arrived on Friday are already installed, or to the Aix-en-Provence fire school, where some of the people who arrived in Wuhan from France were taken today.
On this Sunday's flight they travelled 258 passengers, of which 65 French passengers. The rest were 29 different nationalities, including ten Mexicans.
So far, there are six confirmed cases of coronavirus infection in France.
China raised to 304 today dead and over 14 thousand infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak caused by a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (centre).
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The Philippines also this Sunday announced the death of a Chinese national who was the victim of a coronavirus pneumoniaYeah. He was the first fatality registered outside China.
In addition to mainland China and Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are cases of infection confirmed in 24 other countries.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared on Thursday an international public health emergency (PHEIC) because of the outbreak of the new coronavirus in China