"This decree suspends for thirty days flights from Europe, the United States, South Korea, Japan, China and Iran", announced President Alberto Fer na ndez on national radio and TV networks on Thursday night (12).
The text of the decree stipulates that international flights from the areas most affected by the pandemic should initially be suspended for thirty days. Airlines from affected areas in Europe will be able to operate until Monday (16) to take residents to their countries of origin. After this period, only the Argentine Airlines will be able to repatriate residents in Argentina.
"Within this restriction, the decree stipulates that measures will be implemented to facilitate the return of those countries of residents in Argentina", stressed Alberto Fer na ndez.
The decree also establishes a "mandatory 14-day isolation" in four cases: persons with confirmed diagnosis; persons considered as'suspicious cases'because they have symptoms or have been in affected areas; persons who have had close contact with confirmed or probable cases; and persons who have entered Argentina in the last four days, from Europe, the United States, South Korea, Japan, China and Iran.
President Alberto Fernandez warned that "those who violate isolation will have criminal responsibilities" and "the decree obliges each person to report symptoms compatible with coronavirus".
The Argentine Criminal Code determines "six months to two years imprisonment to anyone who violates measures taken to prevent the introduction or spread of an epidemic".
The Argentine President's statement took place on the same day that the number of infected people in the country increased by 50%, going from 21 to 31, in addition to the deceased on the last day of March 7tYeah. Of the ten new cases, three are the first with local transmission by close contact with people who previously came from affected areas.
The decree also states that "the government will be able to determine measures to prevent the collapse" and "to establish maximum prices for alcohol in gel, masks and other critical inputs".
The Argentine decision arrives on the same day that Bolivia and Venezuela also announced the suspension of flights from Europe to contain the advance of the disease.
"I have determined the suspension of all flights from Europe starting from zero Saturday hours," announced Bolivian President Jeanine Aviez.
The measure is accompanied by the suspension of classes at all educational levels, in addition to the prohibition of public events from over a thousand people until 31 March. Bolivia is in the midst of the election campaign, with Jeanine Aviz as a candidate for President, and the candidate with the most capacity for social mobilization is the opponent Luis Arce, from the Movement to the Socialism of Evo Morales.
Like Argentina, President Bolivian has also announced that she will control the price of medical supplies needed to fight the virus. Bolivia has only three cases of coronavirus. Two of the infected in Italy; one in Spain.
Although Venezuela has not officially confirmed any cases, Venezuelan Nicolas Maduro decided to "suspend all flights from Europe for a month, but also from Colombia".
Maduro also announced "the ban on concentrations or massive events, in addition to the closing of public spaces". The measure would also have a covert political purpose to prevent popular demonstrations led by the opposition.
The U.N. has warned that the Venezuelan health care system is on the verge of collapse and the medical union has warned that there are no health centers prepared to treat coronavirus patients.
Nicolas Maduro did not rule out closing the borders with Colombia and Brazil if the disease spreads through the neighbouring countries