Months ago, no one, not even Greta Thunberg, would risk drawing up such a radical scenario: that a pandemic could be responsible for the further decrease in carbon dioxide emissions worldwide in the last decade. In other words, that a humanitarian dystopia could become some kind of ecological miracle.
With the decrease in oil consumption, the world is emitting less than a million tonnes of carbon dioxide a day. And all this because of Covid-19. The International Energy Agency (EIA) released a report this week indicating that the global demand for oil should be contracted this year for the first time since 2009.
There is no doubt that the pandemic is having an impact on the environment. Only in China, where the new coronavirus emerged, there has been a 25% decrease in CO2 emissions in recent months due to the factories closing in Hubei Province. If this trend continues, the Guardian environment editor Jonathan Watts wrote two weeks ago that world emissions may fall to 2008/09 values before the financial crisis.
Even the drastic reduction in home-work and home-work travel, a little throughout Europe, is not to take into account the equation. "The idea that we need to move every day to a central place to work can be the result of inertia more than anything else. Faced with the real need to travel via the mouse [computer] instead of the car, we may find that the benefits of labour flexibility extend to everything from gasoline consumption to the need for large office parking lots." said American environmentalist Bill McKibben to the British diarYeah.
However, while emissions, at industrial and aviation level, are falling sharply, the increase in the energy consumption of quarantine citizens also weighs heavily on the balance of emissions. "If you come to a cold house and you have to warm it up, it will entail costs that on average will not compensate for the savings of not having to drive to work," explained Christopher Jones, a California University climate policy specialist, to Scientific American magazine.
A coincidence: in 2016, the United Nations determined that the limit that would be imposed on carbon emissions on international flights would be based on the figures recorded in the year of 2020. The expectation was that airlines would continue to grow and CO2 emissions, of course, and a ceiling would be set in this way; since 2013, emissions have increased 26% note.
Because of Covid-19, there were hardly so few airplanes in the air for decades, and the emissions were so low, says the Independent. World air traffic fell 4,3% in February; in China, the number was more radical: 70%.
The pandemic caused the average volume of CO2 emissions to drop significantly. The number of aircraft in the air, at least at European level, is minimal. "A possible beneficial outcome of the virus, if we can se e any light in this tragedy, is that the baseline [determined by the UN] is 2020 and, at the moment, aviation is sort of flat line," said Katherine Kramer, responsible for climate change in the Christian Aid association in the British Parliament, this Wednesday.
In other words, when it comes to the end of the year, if there is no change in the United Nations calendar, the emission base line will be much lower than expected four years ago, he explained. Remember: aviation is one of the sectors that most contributes to climate change: domestic and international flights in 2018 issued around 895 million tonnes of CO2