Inhabitants of a city in central Ukraine engaged in clashes with police on Thursday night and threw stones at six buses carrying 45 Ukrainian and 27 foreign nationals taken from the Chinese province of Hubei, the epicentre of the new coronavirus outbreak.
Some protesters and police officers were injured in the aftermath of the clashes, says Reuters agency.
Residents of Novi Sanzhari are afraid of becoming infected with the coronavirus, although authorities ensure that there is no danger and after a special appeal from the Ukrainian President, Volodimir Zelenskii.
Ukraine has no case of coronavirus.
Tempers became more tense a s night fell after a day of stalemate, with protesters blocking a bridge leading to the sanatorium where the group will be quarantined for 14 days.
Hundreds of police officers and an armored vehicle have been deployed to maintain order.
In addition to the 45 Ukrainian nationals from China, 27 citizens from other countries arrived on the plane that landed in Ukraine on Thursday, including citizens from Argentina, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador and Costa Rica.
A Ukrainian woman refused to be withdrawn from China at the last minute because she was not authorised by the Chinese authorities to take her dog, the Ukrainian embassy in Beijing said.
The Ukrainian authorities say that all passengers on board were tested twice before they were allowed on the plane, but this was not enough to calm the demonstrators.
"Is there no other place in Ukraine that can accommodate 50 people, in villages more or less remote or in remote areas where there is no threat to the population? "questioned one of the inhabitants, Yuuri Dziubenko.
One demonstrator was heard to suggest that they should be kept in Chernobyl, the site of the world's worst nuclear disaster, in 198Yeah. Another suggested taking them to Parliament, while another said that President Zelenskii should shelter them himself if he truly believes there is no danger.
A fragile health system, a high level of corruption and mistrust of authorities are common in Ukraine, which recently also faced an epidemic of measles aggravated by the reluctance of some parents to vaccinate themselves and their children.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The protest prompted Zelenskii to issue a statement to tell the Ukrainians that there is no danger of contagion in Ukraine.
"But there is another danger I would like to mention," the Ukrainian President said. "The danger of forgetting that we are all human, and that we are all Ukrainians."
China has experienced a drop in new cases in the province which is the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak. There are more than 76.000 cases reported, the overwhelming majority in China, and 2247 deaths related to the virus