The Macao Government said this Thursday that if the number of confirmed cases of covid-19 in Portugal continues to increase, the territory may impose a 14-day quarantine on entry into Macao.
"Currently the number of cases is not so high", said the coordinator of the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Leong Iek Hou, at the daily press conference of the New Coronavirus Contingency Coordination Centre.
However, it stressed, "If there is an increase in confirmed cases in Portugal", or if there are "imported cases" in Macao from Portugal, the territory may place the country on the list of high epidemics of covid-19.
At the same press conference, the Macao Government said that the danger is now focused on the possibility of imported cases from covid-19, mainly from Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and European countries, in a territory that has not had cases for 37 days.
"We do not rule out the possibility of imported cases" in Macao, said Macao Health Director Lei Chin Ion at the same press conference one day after WHO declared the disease a pandemic.
The person responsible said that Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong have recently developed rapidly in cases of covid-19 and that the former British colony and mainland China have seen an increase in imported cases, "especially people returning from European countries".
"There is a general slowdown within China. But we cannot let our guard down,"he said, added, that Macao"continues to face a serious threat", although there has been no case for more than a month.
For this reason, Lei Chin Ion appealed to the population not to travel and not to leave the territory only when necessary. Residents must "reduce entrances and exits" from the territory, "avoid socializing and often wash hands," he saidYeah.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The Macao Government is considering putting more European countries on the list of high epidemics of covid-19 and thus imposing a 14-day quarantine on those who have been there. Among these possibilities is the case of Denmark, the authorities said.
On Tuesday, the imposition of a 14-day quarantine for those who have been in Germany, Spain, France or Japan in the 14-day period prior to entry into Macao entered into force. This measure also applies a few weeks ago to people from South Korea, Italy and Iran, and anyone who has been in Norway for the 14th days prior to entry will be subject to medical examination from this Thursday.
In the last 24-hour period, China has recorded 15 new cases of infection with covid-19, the lowest number since it started the daily count in January. Until midnight on Wednesday (16h00 in Lisbon), the number of deaths in mainland China, excluding Macao and Hong Kong, rose in 11 to 3169. In total, the country adds 80793 infected