The G20 group of the twenty major developed and emerging economies in the world agreed to "monitor global risk, including the recent COVID-19 (technical designation of the coronavirus that emerged in Wuhan) at the end of the first meeting of the year by its finance ministers and central bankers held this weekend in Riad, capital of Saudi Arabia, which this year organises the world summit in November.
With the much-noted absence of high-level delegations from China (represented by the Ambassador to the Saudi capital), Russia and the United Kingdom, the tone of the meeting followed the analysis of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) which for the time being points to an impact on the "relatively minor and passenger" global economy. Kristalina Georgieva, Director-General of the Fund, in her speech to the G20, made the point that she considered the overall impact of this unexpected health emergency to be only 0,1 percentage points in world GDP, while maintaining growth in 2020 above 3%.
The IMF expects China to return to normal in the second quarter of the year. Beijing tunes for the same tuning fork. President Xi Jinping acknowledged this weekend that the impact will "be relatively large", but assured it will be "short-term and manageable".
However, the IMF Director-General has advanced in Riyadh that the IMF has already downgraded China's forecast for growth in 2020 to 5.6%, a 0,4 percentage cut in relation to the projection announced in January. Chinese growth would already fall this year from the political and psychological threshold of 6%.
Meanwhile, the risk of a global pandemic has begun to be lifted. A team of 20 academics from Imperial College in London published a study on Friday that is scaring many investorsYeah. According to the epidemiological model used by scientists, 2/3 of the infected initially by Wuhan's coronavirus may have left China even before containment measures were imposed by the Chinese authorities in January.
South Korea raised the alert level to the maximum this weekend and Seoul's bag sank 3.9% this Monday. Fear of the effects on the Chinese economy and regional production chains sparked panic in Sydey with the Australian stock exchange falling over two%, with 51 billion Australian dollars in losses this Monday. The Tokyo stock market was closed because it was a holiday for the emperor's birthday.
Europe was shaken by the coronavirus outbreak in Italy (with ten cities quarantined in Lombardy and Veneto) and the European Commission is now afraid that borders will close within the Union. European stock exchanges opened in red this Monday, with Milan Square leading the falls, with the MIB index losing more than three.5% in the first few minutes of opening.
It should be recalled that Italy is the most fragile economy in the Union and the euro area with only 0,2% growth in 2019. The IMF forecasts advanced in January, even before the coronavirus alarm, point to a very weak acceleration of the Italian economy in 2020 (0,3%) and 2021 (0,6%).