Egypt, Algeria and South Africa are the African countries most at risk of coronavirus cases, although they are also the best prepared on the continent, according to a study published this Wednesday by the scientific journal "The Lancet".
The document also states that countries at moderate risk (Nigeria, Ethiopia, Sudan, Angola, Tanzania, Ghana and Kenya) are less prepared and therefore more vulnerable and need support to assist in the detection and treatment of cases imported from the new coronavirus (Covid-19).
"Increased resources, vigilance and empowerment must be urgently prioritized in African countries with moderate risk of importing new cases of the disease, as these countries are estimated to be ill-prepared to detect cases and limit transmission", can be read in the note.
These positions are the result of a study published by The Lancet which assesses the readiness (i.e. the capacity of the health system) and the vulnerability (demographic, environmental, socio-economic and political conditions) of African countries, as well as the likelihood of importing cases of Covid-19 from China.
Nevertheless, the authors claim that these data should be interpreted in their context, because they estimate that the overall risk of importing cases from Covid-19 to Africa is lower than for Europe, but that the response and reaction capacity is more limited on the African continent.
Algeria, Ethiopia, South Africa and Nigeria were included in the 13th priority countries identified by the World Health Organisation (WHO) on the basis of direct links and travel volumes to China, although the first case of Covid-19 on the continent was confirmed in Egypt, the 14th of February. China is Africa's main trading partner, with high volumes of travel between the two territories.
Various measures have already been taken to prevent cases from being imported into several African countriesYeah. However, limiting and controlling post-importation transmission requires additional measures, such as enhanced surveillance, rapid identification of suspicious cases, patient transfer and isolation, rapid diagnosis, tracking and monitoring.
"Although almost three quarters of all African countries have a plan to prepare for an influenza pandemic, most are outdated and considered unsuitable for dealing with a global pandemic," stated the author of the study, Vittoria Colizza, the French Institute for Health and Medical Research (Inserm) and the Sorbonne University.
The researcher continued by saying that "despite efforts to improve the WHO's diagnostic capability", there are countries that "do not have the resources to test the virus quickly", meaning that the tests would need to be done in other countries.
Vittoria Colizza further noted that the consequences of recent epidemics and pandemics (Influenza H1N1 or Ebola) "highlighted the need to strengthen national public health capacities and infrastructures", because these factors are "the first line of defense in the emergence of infectious diseases" and called for the involvement of the international community.
The authors agree that the study has limitations, namely that they only used air travel data, and that the risk of import through other entries, such as sea ports, has not been evaluated.
The Covid-19 coronavirus caused dead 1.873 and infected around 73.400 people worldwide. Most of the cases occurred in China, where the epidemic was detected at the end of 2019 in Hubei Province, the most affected by the epidemic.
In addition to 1.868 killed in mainland China, there is a body registered in the Chinese region of Hong Kong, one in the Philippines, one in Japan, one in France and one in Taiwan. According to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), there are 45 confirmed cases in the European Union and the United Kingdom. In Portugal, there were 11 suspicious cases, but in none of them confirmed infection