The Chinese coronavirus caused a fellowship collapse in February on a global scale that gave an estimated EUR 6,9 billion (7,6 billion dollars) break in world capitalisation. The sum of the GDP of Germany, France and Spain.
The new coronavirus emerged in Wuhan in China and has already entered the gallery of black swans, the metaphor created by Nassim Taleb for unexpected events with disruptive consequences on financial markets and the economy. Ironic of chance, the black swan derived from the new coronavirus (which is associated with the disease called Covid-10) would have originated from a large horseshoe bat marketed on the market for live animals in that Chinese city.
After a fall in January 1,2%, the worldwide index MSCI sank 8,2% in February, according to data released this weekend by the financial analysis company MSCI (ex-Morgan Stanley Capital International). A much larger fall than the last two bumps on the fellowships in May and August of 2018. The world index covers 23 developed markets (among them the Lisbon stock exchange) and 26 emerging ones (including the two Chinese stock exchanges).
World capitalization was around the 93 billion dollars in late January, taking into account the World Federation of Exchanges data, which covers all the pockets on the planet.
With the February crash, world capitalization fell to near the figures of September last year.
The region with the biggest drop in percentage in February was the euro zone. The MSCI index for this region fell 9.1%, a drop higher than in New York, where the respective MSCI index lost 8.3%. The Lisbon drop in the PSI 20 index was 9,3Yeah.
In New York, Wall Street recorded a real black Thursday the 27 of February with the Dow Jones 30 index recording the largest collapse (at points) in its history and the volatility index reaching levels close to August 2011.
The end of the month could have been even more dramatic on Wall Street if the U.S. Federal Reserve had not published a statement by its President Jerome Powell earlier this Friday afternoon guaranteeing that the central bank will use "all the tools" to support the American economy, whose "foundations remain sound".
Donald Trump would then add that he hopes the Fed will be involved and soon. The future principal rate of the US central bank, which is in the interval between 1,5% and 1,75%, points to three cuts in the rate by summer, starting at the next meeting in the 18th March, with a reduction of 50-base points of money cost for the interval between 1% and 1,25%. By August, the managing fee should drop to 0.5% to 0,75% according to the futures market traced by the CME.
Many investors hope that, even informally, a coordinated response from the world's major central banks to the threat to economies will occur. Next week, meetings of Australia and Canada's central banks will be followed with the utmost attention. In the following two weeks, meetings of the European Central Bank (March 12th) and the Fed (March 18th) will be held, discussing new inflation and growth forecasts.
Although the epicenter of the new coronavirus is in China and the first wave of contagion covers Asia, the region's pockets lost six,1% in February, according to the MSCI index for Asia Pacific, a much lower percentage drop than globally.
The region that experienced the deepest crash in February was Latin America, with the MSCI index losing 12,4Yeah.
In the raw material markets, the price of the barrel of oil led to the falls in February. Brent's price (European variety) fell 14% and the quotation of WTI (US) dropped 13%. Brent's quote fell at the end of the month to fifty dollars, a price level that has not been observed since the summer of 2017.
Two raw materials stood out on the rises in February: palladium, a rare metal indispensable for car catalysts that is more expensive than gold, and coffee.
Despite the financial panic to reinforce, as a rule, the race for returned values, the price of gold rose in February only 0.2%, as investors decided to sell in order to carry out liquidity.
The race for safe values led to a sharp drop in interest on US Treasury bonds ten years ago which descended into new historical minima and closed February in 1.16%. German obligations ten years ago, another sheltered value, fell even more on negative ground and closed in -0,6%