The epidemic of Covid-19, caused by a new coronavirus, triggered online sales of the novels "The Plague" by Albert Camus, and Joseph Saramago's "Blindness Test" in Italy, the most affected European country.
In times of fear of the new coronavirus detected in December in China, various cultural events and equipment have already been cancelled in order to avoid propagation, but on the other hand, the search for books, films, series or games that address the topic of pandemics has been increasing since the beginning of the year.
The latest indicators show an increase in book sales such as "The Plague" (1947), written by Franco-Algerian writer Albert Camus, Nobel Prize winner of Literature, whose 60th anniversary of death is this year, which talks of a plague epidemic in the 1940s, which quickly takes over the whole city of Oro, in Algeria.
Subject to quarantine, this city becomes an unbridled territory and its inhabitants are led into states of suffering, madness, but also compassion.
Last month in Italy, the most affected European country, with three.089 cases of confirmed infection, over fifty thousand people were quarantined due to the outbreak of Covid-19. In this country, Camus'book rose to the third place in portal ibs' top sales, when a month ago it was in 71st place, it reported the Italian newspaper "La Repubblica", in advance that the Amazon platform also recorded an increase in the book ranking in the category of classics, tripling sales.
In France, something similar happened, with 8.889 copies of'The Plague'being sold in the first two months of the year, when all last year the total sales were in the 22.400, according to the Edistat book sales statistics portaYeah.
Also Joseph Saramago's "Blindness Test" (1995), a writer who won the Nobel Prize for Literature three years later, became a literary phenomenon in Italy, having reached the top-10 of ibs and Amazon's 5th place, with an increase in 180% in sales.
The story tells of an epidemic of white blindness that begins with a man inexplicably blinded when he finds himself inside the car in the middle of traffic and that spreads like a powder fuse to collective blindness.
A situation similar to the search for these books is happening with Steven Soderbergh's "Contagion" (2011), in which a woman returned from a business trip to Hong Kong dies of a supposed flu, but the virus spreads and the deadly epidemic spreads, with doctors running out of time trying to identify and fight it and stop the panic of the population.
"Contagion" is already among the ten most watched films on iTunes and among the fifteen most downloaded, according to Google Trends.
The Netflix documentary "Pandemia", which features heroes in a battle against flu and their work to prevent an outbreak around the world, which is not caused by the coronavirus, but shows that the world health system is not prepared to face a global health crisis, has also become a central issue on Twitter.
And as fear sells, various predictions are already circulating on social networks, one of which is reported in the novel "The Eyes of Darkness", by American science fiction writer Dean Koontz. Published in 1981, with a reimpression in 1989, the book has a chapter on a disease called Wuhan-400, which is actually a biological weapon created in that Chinese city.
The page describing the consequences of the virus itself became viral, especially on Twitter: "They call it Wuhan-400 because it was created in one of the RDNA research laboratories outside the city of Wuhan, and it was strain .400 of man-made micro-organisms created in this center. Wuhan is the perfect weapon. It only affects human beings. No other living thing can be a carrier."
Viral also became an image of the Italian Asterix comic, published in 2017, where a driver named Coronavirus takes part in a chariot race, although it has nothing to do with any disease, being only a curiosity of name and country.
In these days of searching for catastrophic omens, also a warning from Bill Gates, made in February of 2017, was put into circulation. At the time, Microsoft's co-founder said that a pathogen that is airborne and rapidly moving "could kill more than half a million people in less than a year", although earlier in 2015 he had warned during a lecture that the world was not prepared "for a next epidemic".
The most catastrophic is the description written by Sylvia Browne in her book of 2008 "End of Days: Predictions and Prophecies About the End of the World", which also spread through social networks, according to which a respiratory disease would erupt throughout the planet in the year 2020, and would not disappear until ten years had passed.
The Covid-19 outbreak, detected in December in China, which can cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, caused about three.300 deaths and infected more than 95 thousand people in 79 countries, including eight in Portugal. From infected people, more than fifty thousand have recovered.
In addition to 3012 killed in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States of America and the Philippines, San Marino, Iraq, Switzerland and Spain.
A Portuguese crewman of a cruise ship is hospitalized in Japan for confirmation of infection.
In Portugal, the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) confirmed eight cases of infection, of which six in Porto, one in Coimbra and one in LisboYeah.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and increased the risk to "very high"