The number of deaths from the new coronavirus increased again this Thursday: they are 563 killed only in China (and 565 worldwide). But there's good news: clinical trials of one of the drugs that could treat this disease have already begun.
The number of new infections, however, has fallen by comparison with those recorded this Wednesday. It's also good news and it's the second time this has happened: it was 3887 new infections in China and 3156 of those have happened and Hubei, the epicenter of the outbreak. Overall, there are 28.268 cases of infection. Already at least 1000 people recovered from the infection, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University in the USA.
Outside China, 230 new cases and two deaths have already been confirmed: one in Hong Kong and one in the Philippines.
In Wuhan, clinical trials for the medicine Remdesivir started this Thursday and involve 761 patients: 308 of them with moderate symptoms and 453 under more serious conditions. The medicine, which has not yet been approved anywhere in the world, was developed by Gilead Science laboratories, which made them available free of charge for this test, informed the Chinese Ministry of Health, as the South China Morning Post writes.
Remdesivir was developed to treat Ebola and had already been pointed out by a set of Chinese researchers from the Wuhan Virology Institute as one of the best-performing medicines in the treatment of the virus. The results were published in Cell Research (also available in Nature). The first patient with coronavirus in the U.S. was treated with Remdesivir and his condition improved, the doctors who treated him in a study published in The New England Journal of Medicine last week reported.
Although the tests have already started, the World Health Organisation notes that "there are still no effective therapies against this 2019-nCoVYeah. As a result, several experts are meeting in Geneva, Switzerland, February 11th and 12th to prioritise the research and development of medicines, diagnostics and vaccines. The meeting is sponsored by the World Health Organisation (WHO) which requested on Wednesday 675 million dollars (about 613 million euros) to implement a plan containing the spread of the virus.
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director General of the WHO, acknowledged that the sum was high, but that it is "considerably smaller than the account we will have if we do not invest in the preparation now", he said at a press conference quoted by The Guardian.
In Wuhan, shortages accumulate. Hi Lishan, High Commissioner in Wuhan City, said there was a "severe" lack of beds, as well as suitable materials to treat patients.
This Thursday, Japan (the second country with the largest number of infections after China, in total are 45) confirmed ten new infected passengers on the Diamond Princess ship. Already on Wednesday, ten cases were detected, increasing to 20 the total number of infected within the ship still in Yokohama harbor about an hour away from Tokyo.
The ten new cases concern four Japanese nationals, two Americans, two Canadians, a New Zealander and a Taiwanese. According to the Japanese Minister of Health, Katsunobu Kato, five of the new infected were 70 years old, four were 60 and one person was 50. They are all being treated in hospitals in Yokohama area.
All remaining passengers and crew members shall remain on the ship for the next 12 days, the estimated maximum incubation period of the virus. Since Monday no one has been allowed to leave the ship, which is serving as a quarantine site in Yokohama harboYeah.
Also a cruise ship in Hong Kong, the World Dream, is quarantined after at least 33 crew members have developed symptoms similar to those of the coronavirus. Of this group, only one crewman did not have a positive test. Of the 3600 passengers on board (who are in quarantine), at least three had a positive test.
In response to this news, Taiwan has banned all cruises from docking on its territory.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
Macanese casinos will be closed for at least the next 15 days due to the outbreak of the new coronavirus and this closure may mean the loss of nearly three billion euros in the next six months, according to the financial rating agency Fitch Rating.
As reported, the agency foresees a "fall of 50% and 25% in revenue in the first and second trimester respectively in Macao" which "results in an aggregate decline of 3,3 billion dollars (3 billion euro in cash flow for all six Macao operators", added Fitch.
Fitch further noted that the fall of almost 80% of the number of visitors in the world capital of the game during Chinese New Year week had already caused great damage to casino revenues. "Prior to the outbreak, Macao was generating around 100 million in gross daily gambling revenue", the agency stated, to conclude that closing these complexes for 15 days will cause losses of 1,5 billion dollars (1,4 billion euro)