The coronavirus pandemic is "accelerating": the alert is from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and was given this Monday by its Director General, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. "It took 67 days since the first reported case to reach the 100 thousand cases, 11 days for the second 100 thousand, and only four days for the third hundred thousand", he summarized. "We need unity between the G20 countries that have more than 80% of global GDP. If we do not give priority to the protection of health workers, many people will die because the healthcare worker who could save their lives is ill,"said the person responsible.
On the day when the number of infected exceeded the 370 thousand, the deaths exceeded the 16 thousand and those recovered the 100 thousand. Italy, with more than 63 thousand cases, is rapidly approaching the number of cases in China (81 thousand), with deaths in Italy (more than six thousand) almost twice as many as in Chinese territory (more than three thousand). The Beijing authorities have advanced that the country is still without local cases of infection, while the Roma have closed off non-essential production throughout the country.
With more than 35 thousand cases of infection and more than two thousand dead, see here how Spain came in the same way as Italy. One more fact that can help explain: elderly people in Spanish homes live in the same space as corpses that are not removed from their rooms. The country has renewed its alarm status for another two weeks.
Still in Spain, actress Luc ia Bose died at the age of 89 in a hospital in Segovia. Another fatal victim of the pandemic in that country was former Member Jose Folgado, who was Secretary of State for Energy in the Governments of Jose Maria Aznar and President of the Electrical Network.
The Portuguese ambassador to Spain has issued an alert, urging the Portuguese to avoid travelling and stay at homYeah.
In France, the National Health Agency announced that three doctors died after contracting coronavirus.
The European Parliament has also reported its first kill by mistake-19 and is offering psychological support to its officials.
Authorities in Panama have confirmed the death of a 13-year-old girl, one of the youngest victims of the pandemic. Overall figures indicate that covid-19 is most dangerous in patients already suffering from health problems and among the older population. However, the death of the teenager in that country is giving more force to the warnings that have been issued by experts: young adults and children are not immune to the risk of infection and suffer serious consequences.
US President Donald Trump urged his fellow citizens to stand united. "I want the Americans to know that we will overcome this challenge. Normal life will return,"he said. Although he continually referred to the coronavirus as a "Chinese virus", Trump stated that Asian Americans should not be held accountable. Trump assured him that he would not let "healing be worse than the problem itself". "This is a medical problem. We will not let the coronavirus become a long-term financial problem,"he added. US health authorities have registered over a hundred deaths in a single day, which raises the death toll to 545 across the country.
Former film producer Harvey Weinstein, arrested for rape and sexual abuse, is infected with coronavirus. Information has come from the state's correctional authorities in New York, where he is serving a 23-year prison sentence.
In the United Kingdom, Prime Minister Boris Johnson indicated that there are only five reasons to leave the house: to buy food, exercise once a day, go to the doctor or pharmacist, go to work (but only if it is not even possible to work from home) and help vulnerable peoplYeah. Leaving the house under any other circumstances is prohibited. "We will get to the point where no health care system in the world can handle this virus," said the head of the British Government.
Learn about the "German exception" link and what explains a lethality rate of only 0.3%. Angela Merkel received the first test result, which was negative. The German chancellor has been in quarantine since Sunday, after a doctor with whom she had been positive about the virus. In the meantime, Merkel is surrounded to throw away the coronabonds'taboo. A brief memory exercise: in 2012, at the height of the sovereign debt crisis, the Chancellor assured that there would be European bonds over her dead body that would allow the debt of the euro area to be mutualised. Now, you're probably gonna have to find a coronabond, whatever it is.
The Finance Ministers of the 27 Member States of the European Union (EU) endorsed the suspension of budgetary discipline, validating the European Commission proposal freeing governments from the recommended deficit targets. The goal is to increase their margin for manoeuvre so that they can inject more money into fighting the pandemic. Brussels has made it clear that it wants green roads at the borders for the transport of goods. And the EU was also prepared to give financial aid to Venezuela and Iran,'which are in greatest difficulty because of sanctions'.
Despite the Commission's change of strategy, European fellowships opened in red this Monday. Technologies also tremble: although they are one of the most dynamic sectors in the world and those most capable of teleworking, these characteristics do not render them immune to the impacts of the pandemic. In the US, the Federal Reserve will do unlimited shoppinYeah.
According to a review carried out by Agency France-Presse, more than one billion people in more than fifty countries or territories are confined to their homes by the order of their authorities. But the WHO warns that containment may not be enough to defeat the virus.
On the African continent, the most affected country, South Africa, has announced that its citizens will be in isolation from Thursday. In Ethiopia, the strategy is to close the land borders.
In India too, there are stricter containment measures and internal flights are suspended.
In Brazil, Rio de Janeiro is quarantined and only supermarkets and pharmacies are left open.
The day was also marked by the unknown regarding the Tokyo Olympic Games. Canada has started by ensuring that if the Olympics take place this year, the country will not send its athletes to Tokyo. The Japanese Prime Minister stated that "annulment is not a possibility", but acknowledged that postponing the competition "may be inevitable". In an interview with USA Today newspaper, Dick Pound, the most senior member of the International Olympic Committee, said that the decision to postpone the Games is "made". It is already "certain" that the proof, which was supposed to start the 24th of July, "will not start on that date," he assured.
In the environment, good news: pollution levels are falling significantly worldwide with the pandemic. Another good news in the line of fighting the virus through 3D printing: visors, masks and fans are being manufactured a little throughout the world, including in Portugal.
One bad news: tourism loses one million jobs every day at global level.
And in closing, the WHO warns of fraud in full pandemic