There are currently 60 million Italians under strict quarantine. A country closed at home that can only leave for "proven reasons of health or work", as stated by Giuseppe Conte's government decree. These are extreme measures to try to halt the progression of the new coronavirus, because in 17 days Italy has gone from having three patients diagnosed with covid-19 and has become the country with the largest number of cases and deaths outside China: 17.660 and 1266 respectively.
As if the pressure these numbers put on the health system and on the government was not enough, Italy is also facing an above-average lethality rate, about seven% of the infected (or at least diagnosed) population is already dead.
The 31 in January 2020 identified the first cases in two Chinese visiting tourists to Rome. And this number remained stable for weeks, with authorities trying to figure out the route of the infected in Italy.
Only almost twenty days later, the 22nd day of February, the first case of internal contamination would be confirmed in a city about 60 kilometres from Milan: the small Codogno in northern Italy confirmed six cases of infection with the new coronavirus and decided to shut down all public and private sites, including schools, services and supermarkets.
The following day the alarms were sounding again: the Italian authorities confirmed two coronavirus deaths and about six dozen new infections, when 24-hour earlier there were fewer than ten confirmed cases. And since that day, the numbers have been multiplying.
The northern regions of Lombardy, Genous and Emilia Romagna are the most affected by the outbreak -85% of the infected are from that region, which is suffering about 90% of deaths. But the virus has been confirmed in every 20-region of the countryYeah.
This Thursday, the death count of the new coronavirus outbreak rose 250 to 1266 obits. The total number of cases increased to 17.660, in view of Thursday's 15.113, an increase in 16.8%. It's the highest daily increase in absolute numbers since the contagion accelerated.
For the situation to have evolved s o quickly, the Italian authorities believe that the new coronavirus entered the country long before the first case was detected, a s Time Flavia Riccardo, a researcher for the Infectious Diseases Department of the Italian National Health Institute, says. "All this happened exactly when we were dealing with our peak influenza A, when citizens showed symptoms of that pathology," he says.
Even before the first cases were confirmed, there were abnormally high numbers of pneumonia patients in a hospital in Codogno and these health facilities may have become hotbeds of infection. Authorities believe this may be one of the reasons why Italian numbers with regard to covid-19 are so high. "By the time we realized [the disease], there were already many active transmission chains", says the researcher to Time.
In addition, the specialist advances, Italy may have a larger number of cases recorded as a result of more stringent tests than the other countries: it has already tested more than 40 thousand people. However, that does not explain lethality.
For the time being, the death pattern in Italy is similar to that in China. Older people with associated diseases such a s cancer, diabetes, respiratory diseases and others that depress the immune system are most affected. According to the National Institute of Health, the average age of coronavirus patients who died in Italy is eight years olYeah.
But the figures are high: Germany, with 2369 infected, adds only five dead, while Italy, with a similar number (2502 to March 4) already recorded 80; Spain has 4209 cases and 120 deaths, while Italy with 4636 cases (March 7th) had 197s deaths.
As we already know, the elderly are one of the groups particularly susceptible to the virus and Italy has the most ageing population in Europe, with 23% with 65 years or more. In world terms, it is only surpassed by Japan, but can this help explain such a large number of deaths?
Constantino Sakellarides, former Director-General of Health, jubilated professor of the National School of Public Health and current member of the National Board of Public Health, explains that the Italian case may be related to the fact that Northern Italy is one of the most "prosperous" regions in the world. "It is no accident that this happened in Milan and not in Lisbon. It has to do with the intense relations that China maintains with the world's most developed business nuclei, among these Milan,"said the specialist, pointing out that, however, the fact that North Italy is a rich region makes it very well served in terms of health services.
On the deaths associated with the virus and recorded so far in the country, particularly among older people, the public health expert prefers to focus on the method of calculation of deaths. "It is difficult to associate the deaths in Italy only with an ageing population, and we cannot speak in mortality rates, but in lethality rates. The first is the number of deaths in the population and the second is the victims in the infected population. When we say 6% we are talking about 6% of patients and not 6% of the Italian population, because that would be a catastrophe", explains the former Director-General for HealtYeah. Constantine Sakellarides argues that the situation in Italy is "dramatic", but it is difficult to base it only on the ageing of citizens, because South Korea or Japan are so (or more) aged. According to the latest reports, South Korea has so far registered 7979 confirmed cases and 66 deaths, and Japan has detected 639 cases and 16 deaths.
The expert rejects treating Italy as a special case against the other exporting countries of the new coronavirus and considers that the Italian case, the most serious case of the epidemic outside China, relates to "the loss of containment capacity".
In the light of recent measures taken by the Italian Government in a disproportionate effort to contain the virus, Constantine Sakellarides explains that while other countries have had time to learn and study how SARS-CoV-2 is transmitted, Italy has not had that luck. "We, like other countries, have already had more than two months of Chinese experience and other weeks of Italian experience to deal with the virus. The Chinese measures have been very muscular, and most countries are not able to implement such efforts,"explains the public health expert. "Italy has not had the benefit of learning from other countries other than China and I have the impression that it acted later; hence several countries are now acting earlier, such as Portugal."
According to the expert, this virus, due to its transmissibility and its incubation period, is circulating much faster than it appears. "There is a small increase at the beginning and then an exponential increase, as we have seen in several countries, such as Spain, Denmark and Italy itself. We have decided to close many public spaces and schools in the 80 cases, Denmark in the 500, and Spain in the 200Yeah. Although "benefit" is a dangerous word at this time, we have been able to benefit from examples and make such a decision long before others," "And we must not forget that social pressure also has a great impact on these political decisions to close schools and other public spaces."
According to a study published this Friday in the scientific journal The Lancet by two Italian researchers, the number of infected patients since February 21 in Italy is following an "exponential trend". "If this trend continues for another week, there will be 30 thousand infected patients", they move forward.
According to this research, which provides up-to-date information on the Italian scenario, the average age of those who died in the country was 81 years and more than two thirds of these patients had diabetes, cardiovascular disease or cancer. "While it is true that these patients already had other health problems, it is also important to note that, because of SARS-CoV-2, they needed respiratory support and would not have died otherwise", the study advances.
Of the first eight victims, 14,1% were over 90, 42,2% between 80 and 89 years, 32,4% between 70 and 79 years, 8,4% between 60 and 69 years and only 2,8% between 50 and 59 years.
There are around 5200 beds in intensive care units in Italy. From these researchers advance, more than a thousand are already being occupied by SARS-CoV-2 infected citizens. "In the near future, this number will progressively increase to the point where thousands of beds will be occupied by patients with covid-19. As the mortality of severely ill patients is high, the number of infected people in Italy is likely to put a great deal of pressure on intensive care in hospitals, some of which lack adequate resources or teams to deal with this emergency,"said researcherYeah. This factor can increase mortality.
The two experts believe that the restrictions must continue to be imposed so that what happened in China does not happen in Italy. "If the Italian outbreak follows a trend similar to that of China, we can hope that the number of newly infected patients will begin to decrease. Likewise, we can predict that the cumulative curve of infected patients will reach its peak thirty days later", suggests the authors.
While the other countries deal with new cases of SARS-CoV-2 on a daily basis, China reported only eight new cases of infection this Friday, the lowest number since it started the daily count in January. By midnight Thursday (16h00 on Wednesday in Lisbon), mainland China had 3169 deaths and a total infected 80.793. But 62.793 people were released after they had overcome the disease to date, leaving 14.831 in treatment.
The roles appear to have reversed: in view of the imported cases, one of the priorities of the Chinese authorities is now to "protect against the import" of infections from other countries. Numbers have fallen sharply in comparison to last month, when the number of new cases rose to over a thousand a day. The spokesman for the National Health Commission, Mi Feng, said Thursday that the peak of the epidemic has already passed in China, but that "the rapid development of the epidemic abroad has brought new uncertainties".
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
Note: The figures in the information in this article were collected by the PUBLIC during the morning of March 13th. However, at 5:00pm this Friday, the Italian authorities revealed updated numbers of confirmed cases and deaths