The new coronavirus killed 1,4% of infected people in Wuhan, China, according to a study published today, which also highlights the increase in mortality rates with age. According to the researchers of the study published in the scientific journal "Nature Medicine", the number of confirmed cases is probably much lower than the number of people actually infected, due to the limited ability to carry out mass tests, and therefore also the actual mortality will be lower in relation to official numbers.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) advanced last week that the mortality rate of the virus is in the 3,4%, but according to the study, the likelihood of dying after the development of Covid-19 symptoms is 1,4%.
Looking at the epicenter of the pandemic, the Chinese city of Wuhan, the team of Chinese researchers believes they have developed a better estimate of the lethality of the new coronavirus, supported by various public and private databases that include indicators such as confirmed cases unrelated to the market where the outbreak occurred, the confirmed air passenger cases and the profile of confirmed cases and deaths.
"Estimating the actual number of cases is a challenge for an overburdened health system, which cannot indicate the number of cases for sure", writes the researchers. Until February 29, mainland China had 79.394 confirmed cases and 2.838 deaths (3,5% mortality among positive cases), most of which in Wuhan.
However, the authors believe that many of the less serious cases have not been accounted for, therefore, considering that their methodology for estimating Covid-19 mortality is more appropriate, since it includes an estimate of the actual number of casesYeah. According to the research team, the number of deaths "depends mainly on the severity of the symptoms developed by an infected person and that is the problem that must be at the centre of attention".
The study led by Joseph Wu, virologist at the University of Hong Kong, also analysed the relationship between age and mortality. According to the results, people over five years old are more than five times more likely to die than those of age between 30 and 59. On the other hand, those less than 30 years are 0.6 times less likely (60%) to die than the previous group. The risk of developing moderate to severe symptoms increases by about four% every year in the age group between 30 and 60 years.
"Estimates of observed and unobserved infections are essential for the development and evaluation of public health strategies, which must be balanced against economic, social and individual freedom costs, writes the researcher, adding that these new data are particularly important for Europe, now at the epicentre of the pandemic.
The new coronavirus, responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic, infected over 231 thousand people around the world, of whom more than nine.350 died. More than 86.250 people have recovered from the disease. After appearing in China in December, the outbreak has already spread to 177 countries and territories, leading the World Health Organisation (WHO) to declare a pandemic situation.
China, for its part, announced this Thursday that it had not experienced new local infections in the last 24-hour period, which is the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic. However, it recorded 34 new imported cases.
In total, since the outbreak began last December, the authorities of mainland China, excluding Macao and Hong Kong, have accounted for diagnosed infections 80.894, including 69.614 cases that have already recovered, while the total death has settled in the 3.237Yeah.
In Portugal, the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) has today elevated the number of confirmed cases of infection to 785, 143 more than on Wednesday. In the bulletin released by the DGS, three people were killed, but in the meantime, the Ovar Chamber has announced a fourth fatality.
Of the confirmed cases, 696 are recovering at home and 89 are admitted, 20 of which in Intensive Care Units (ICU). DGS reports 6.061 suspicious cases to this day, of which 488 were awaiting lab results. Of the infected people in Portugal, three recovered.
According to the bulletin, there are eight.091 contacts in surveillance by the health authorities. Currently, there are 24-hour transmission chains active in Portugal.