It was more or less inevitable that one of the most popular fake news in the world released by Twitter about the Chinese and American covid-19. Believing the news, the pandemic virus did not originate in China, but in the USA. This information is at the top of a total of 3180 tweets produced last week and identified as suspects of spreading lies related to the coronavirus by an automatic fake news extraction system designed by the Port Science Faculty and the Institute of Systems Engineering and Computers, Technology and Science (INESC TEC).
According to Nuno Guimaros, the researcher who proposed to develop this system, the increase in fake news about the pandemic on Twitter has been exponential. Preliminary results show that there was a jump from 157 suspected tweets in the first week of February to 658 between 16 to 23 February and 3180 last week. And the trend is to keep rising.
Statistics refer to tweets produced in English worldwide. Developing since the end of 2018, it is the first time that this software is applied to a specific event. Initially, the system was able to detect fake news on Facebook as well, but was limited to Twitter after Zuckerberg's social network blocked the possibility of extracting this data massively. Also WhatsApp was off-radar because it was a private means of communication, only accessible to those directly involved in exchanging messages. To get around the problem, a MediaLab team at ISCTE-IUL, specializing in fake news, created a number of WhatsApp on purpose and began receiving messages as if they were an individual user. A report from last week on the results of the analysis centered on the early days of the pandemic concluded that audio files are more popular on WhatsApYeah. "They are very effective because there is emotion contained in the intonation as information is transmitted," says the researcher Gustavo Cardoso. A fact-checking team made of the ten most shared files concluded that seven of them contained incorrect facts.
In the experience with Twitter, Alvaro Figueira, professor at the Faculty of Porto Sciences, explains that although it is not possible to guarantee the 100% that all situations identified by the system correspond to false information, the degree of probability is very high, and a complex combination of parameters is used, including measuring the level of emotion associated with each tweet. "Fake news has its own record. They usually use stronger adjectives and are more alarmist."But the most reliable criterion is related to the sites to which tweets refer and which have been referred as"unreliable"by presenting a history of false news.
Among the most popular fake news released on Twitter is the idea that vitamin C has been used in high doses as an effective remedy; the thesis that coronavirus is a combination of several viruses, including HIV, or that there is no limit to the number of reinfections.
In the case of the revelation that after all the virus originated in the US, the tweet (sent back after 782 thousand times) was linked to a link referring to a supposed research centre in Canada, where an article presents alleged evidence, including the allusion to (false) news from 2019's "New York Times". The thesis: The coronavirus is a biological weapon of American manufacture. Days later, BuzzFeed reported that one of the people who had released the tweet was the spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Minister.