The Frismag appliance plant in Torres Vedras, with a thousand workers, closes as of Friday, after a case of infection with the new coronavirus in the company has been confirmed, was reported to the workers today. In a statement released this Thursday to over a thousand workers, to which the Lusa Agency had access, the company reports that it has decided to close from Friday and until the 30th of this month.
At the origin of the closure, the director, Ivan Cachatra, who has been in isolation since Monday, is infected after receiving the positive result of the analysis.
It states in the statement that, together with the local public health authorities, the removal is being made of the persons whom the Director has been in contact with since the 11th day in order to be in preventive quarantine within the next 14 days corresponding to the date of the 30th day of this month.
It is indicated that work today "should proceed with the greatest normality" and that, from the closing date, a picket service is maintained "to occur to more critical situations in the areas of security, logistics or communication infrastructures".
If a worker develops symptoms, it is recommended that he should not appear at the plant on the 31 day, when it plans to resume work.
On Wednesday, the Union of Industrial Transformation Workers of the Centre, South and Autonomous Regions called for the closure of the unit, noting alleged failures in the contingency plan against Covid-19.
"The workers are very afraid to continue to work, because proximity between workers is reduced and continue to work shoulder to shoulder on the lower floor," said the agency Lusa Duarte Fontes, trade union leaderYeah.
In turn, the factory director, Joao Cachatra, clarified that the contingency plan is being complied with, and that two different sanitation procedures and two different schedules have been implemented, so that only half of the workers remain in the factory, which also started to close at lunchtime, so there's no workers from the different shifts crossing.
However, he admitted that he still needs adjustments and that in "another day or two he has all the conditions implemented". The company is trying to acquire thermometers, to start measuring temperature, and masks in quantity to be stocked enough for the workers.
With school closures, since Monday, a hundred workers have been at home supporting their children. Production "declined, but for the moment did not reach significant levels", nor did it have an effect on billing, he said.
The factory had already announced that it will fire between 40 and 50 temporary workers by the end of this month for reduced orders and billing, with the termination of the contract with a client, represented 14% on its invoice. The termination of the contract with the multinational was already being prepared for two years.
Eugster Frismag de Torres Vedras in the Lisbon district employs 1.060 workers and has made 118 million euros in 2019 with the manufacture of small appliances, largely coffee machines. In addition to Torres Vedras, the multinational has three factories in Switzerland and one in China.
The new coronavirus, responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic, infected over 220 thousand people around the world, of whom more than eight.900 died. From infected people, over 85.500 recovered from the disease.
After the outbreak in China in December, the outbreak already spread to 176 countries and territories, which led the World Health Organisation (WHO) to declare a pandemic situation.
The continent of Europe is the one where the largest number of cases are currently emerging, with Italy, with 2.978 deaths in 35..713 cases, Spain, with 767 deaths (17.147 cases) and France with 264 deaths (9.134 cases).
In Portugal, the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) has today elevated the number of confirmed cases of infection to 785, 143 more than on Wednesday. The number of dead people in the country has risen to three.