The Chinese state press released a speech this Saturday by President Xi Jinping indicating that the Chinese leader was aware of the potential gravity of the outbreak of the new coronavirus weeks before the population was alerted to the issue.
At the beginning of the outbreak, Xi Jinping adopted a stance that many considered to be ineffective, fuelling a wave of criticism about the response to the crisis of the Chinese Government, which forced him this week to come forward with the fight against the health crisis, to unleash a purge on the leaders of the Chinese Communist Party (PCC) in Hubei Province, where the new virus arose and initiate a reform in the way China deals with health emergencies.
In an unprecedented way, Chinese citizens, forced into quarantine of gigantic proportions, tens of millions of people are confined to their homes, or subjected to control measures severely restricting their movement or contact with other people, call for more transparency in the state, more information on what if it's going on. Xi Jinping, as a highly centralized State authority source, is constrained to open some windows, leaving to air a system accustomed to secrecy, while tightening control elsewhere.
It is with this in mind that the announcement this Sunday of Xi Jinping's speech to the Third of February in which he reports that he gave orders to the 7th of January during a meeting of the Standing Committee on Politburo, the most powerful body in Chinese policy, for the implementation of measures to prevent infections with the new coronavirus. The speech is published in Qiushi magazine, described by the CPC's official journal, as "a reference publication of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China"Yeah.
In this speech, accompanied by photos of Xi and other leaders in blue paper masks, the Chinese President says he authorized the unprecedented quarantine in Wuhan from 23 January, a city with 11 million people, which is an important knot of rail, river and air transport, with a technological and automotive production centre for international brands, and also in an important area of agricultural production.
Although Xi reported his actions since the beginning of January, only on the 20th day of January Xi spoke publicly of the new disease and the Chinese authorities acknowledged the existence of the epidemic in the city of Wuhan, which had then spread to other Chinese cities and other countries. It was on that day that the Beijing authorities confirmed that Covid-19 was passing between humans, when alarm began to take on a new tone.
Xi Jinping's advisors will have thought that the disclosure of this debate will show that the Chinese President has been aware of the crisis from the beginning, and they hope to dispel criticism because he has not publicly appeared to lead the actions against the emergency, which has already killed 1665 in a total of 68.500 infections. "The general tone of the speech seems defensive", he told the New York Times Minxin Pei, professor of government at Claremont McKenna College in California (USA). "He wants to change the narrative, which so far has been very unfavorable to Chinese lieutenants."
"I have followed at all times the spread of the epidemic and the progress in efforts to contain it, constantly issuing orders orally and instructions," Xi Jinping said in the speech quoted by the New York Times.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the most profound works of the publiYeah.
The Chinese executive now faces several criticisms and public discontent, which became acute earlier this month after the death of Li Wenliang, the Chinese doctor, 34-year-old, who issued warnings about the new virus and was arrested for spreading rumours and forced to sign a document unfolding, and who died. after contracting Covid-19.
A few hours after the announcement of the speech, China announced a drop in the new Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day. New cases were reported this Sunday 2009 in mainland China, which excludes Macao and Hong Kong, raising the total number to 68.500. The mortality rate remained stable, with 142 new deaths, the National Health Commission informed. The number of deaths in mainland China by the new coronavirus was fixed in the 1665. There is also a dead person registered in the Chinese special administrative region of Hong Kong, one in the Philippines, one in Japan and one in France (recorded this Saturday), raising the total number of deaths worldwide to 1669