The small town of Codogno in northern Italy, where six cases of infection with the new coronavirus were confirmed, decided this Friday to close all public places with a propensity to register crowds of people, including schools, services and supermarkets. Among the six confirmed cases of infection in Codogno, a city about 15 thousand inhabitants, is a 38-year-old man who is in an intensive medical care unit.
Codogno mayor Francesco Passerini explained that the decision was taken because confirmation of infection cases "created an alarm situation" in the area. The municipality has ordered the immediate closure, for a period of up to five days, of various public places, such as schools, municipal services, supermarkets, bars, discos and sports pavilions.
Alongside the patient in intensive care, two other people have symptoms associated with the new coronavirus (Covid-19), which can cause potentially serious respiratory diseases such a s pneumonia. Three other people have had a first positive test and are now waiting for the results of a second test. Two of the confirmed cases are the wife and a friend of the 38-year-old man in intensive care.
Without taking into account the cases of the three people awaiting the second test, Italy has so far confirmed six cases of infection with the new coronavirus, which was first detected at the end of the year in Wuhan, in the Hubei province (central China).
In addition to the mainland territory of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, other cases of infection of the new coronavirus have been confirmed in around thirty countries and territories. The number of infected has already surpassed the 76 thousand people globally, with the vast majority being on Chinese territory.Yeah.
In mainland China alone, the number of deaths has already exceeded the two thousand (2.236), between 75.465 confirmed cases of infection, according to the latest Beijing data. In other countries, the number of confirmed cases of infection exceeds the 1.100.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared in mid-January an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.