At the end of last year the alert emerged: several people were infected with the unknown virus, responsible for respiratory problems. In early January the Chinese health authorities isolated a new coronavirus. There is still a lot of information that needs to be ascertained, such as the source of infection and the most detailed way to give the person-to-person transmission.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared an international public health emergency in January, but opposed travel and trade restrictions. This Tuesday, the WHO said that this is not a pandemic but an epidemic with multiple outbreaks. Thousands of people have already been infected and a few hundred have died.
The PUBLIC has consulted the information available in the WHO, the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (ECDC) and the Portuguese Directorate-General for Health and has an update on what is already known and not yet.
What are coronaviruses? Coronavitis (CoV) is a large family of respiratory diseases viruses, which can range from a simple cold to more serious situations such a s Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS-CoV) and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-CoV), explains the WHO. From the microscope, the coronaviruses appear to have a crown of thorns around them and hence this name.
Why is it said that this is a new coronavirus? Because so far this strain has not yet been identified. Since the first cases of infection arose at the end of 2019 in Wuhan City, Hubei Province in China, several scientists have studied the genome of this new coronavirus (2019-nCoV). As far as it can be concluded, it bears a similarity to the SARS virus in the order of 89%.
How is the transmission? It is known that coronaviruses are transmitted between animals and peoplYeah. In the case of SARS, the transmission was via city cats and MERS via dromedaries. According to information on the WHO website, there are several coronaviruses identified in animals where there has not yet been a transmission to people. On the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) the source of infection is still unknown and therefore the ECDC admits it may be active.
When and where were the first cases of the new coronavirus detected? Last December 31, the WHO was informed by the Chinese authorities of cases of pneumonia of unknown origin. They were detected in the city of Wuhan. The new coronavirus was identified by the Chinese authorities at 7th January. At the time, the authorities were talking about at least 59 people with the disease. Most cases are epidemiologically linked to a specific market for live food and animals (fish, shellfish and birds) in Wuhan. The market was cleaned and closed to the public the first of January.
Is this new coronavirus comparable to SARS or seasonal influenza? For the moment, the lethality rate of the new coronavirus has fluctuated between 2% and 3%
The ECDC recalls that information on 2019-nCoV is still limited, but that in the case of SARS, an epidemic that arose at the end of 2002 also in China, the virus has infected more than 8000 thousand people in 33 countries in eight months. There were 774 deaths, which represented a lethality rate of 10%. In MERS, identified in 2012 in Saudi Arabia, the lethality rate is estimated in 35%.
Compared to influenza, despite exhibiting the same symptoms, "the two viruses are very different and therefore behave differently," explains the ECDC, which estimates that each year they die prematurely up to 40 thousand people in the European region because of flu-related causes. Only in Portugal at the time of 2018/2019 flu died about 3000 peoplYeah.
Is there a person-to-person transmission? The Chinese health authorities have confirmed that the virus is transmissible among humans, although the mechanisms are not yet fully known. There is still not enough information to determine how easy and sustainable the transmission from person to person is. To the PUBLIC, the DGS had already explained that "sustained person-to-person transmission" means that chains of transmission of the infection are gradually forming secondary, tertiary and so on".
What is the incubation period of the disease? The DGS explained to the PUBLIC that, "according to the WHO, it is on average seven days and may extend from two to 12 days". But it could be four days. There is currently an indication that the virus can be transmitted even before the infected person shows symptoms.
What mode of transmission? According to WHO, this is a respiratory virus "that spreads primarily through contact with an infected person through respiratory droplets generated when a person, for example, coughs or sneezes, or through droplets of saliva or nasal secretion".
Preliminary reports indicate that the new coronavirus can survive a few hours on surfaces. In the face of suspected or confirmed cases, a disinfectant solution should be used to clear surfaces.
Which cells are affected? In an interview with the PUBLIC, pneumologist and representative of the Medical Association for issues related to the new coronavirus Filipe Froes explained that the affected cells are those of the respiratory system. "The main binding element to enter the cells is probably a receptor called ACE2, which is a more prevalent receiver in the lower respiratory tract," he explained, pointing out that it is not yet known whether another recipient exists.
What symptoms? The most common signs include fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties, according to WHYeah. In more serious cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, renal failure and death.
Are there groups at greater risk of contagion? People of all ages may be affected, but so far, as we know, it has been the elderly and/or chronic diseases such as diabetes, hypertension or heart disease that have developed more serious frameworks of the disease.
Is there any treatment or vaccine? There is currently no specific treatment for this infection. What is being done is to provide support care, such as oxygen, fluid management and antivirals to prevent other infections from arising and to keep the patient stable. The Chinese authorities are working on creating a vaccine, which they say they are already testing. More laboratories are working on it.
How to prevent the contagion? The DGS recommends that travellers avoid close contact with people who have signs of respiratory infections; frequently wash their hands, especially after direct contact with sick people; avoid contact with animals; cover their nose and mouth when sneezing or coughing with a tissue or with their arm and wash their hands all the time "Travellers with a history of travel or stay in the affected areas in the last 14 days who have experienced fever, cough and possible respiratory distress should, before seeking health services, call SNS24 (808 24 24 24 24), recommends the DGS.
Should we wear masks? The use of a mask may help to limit the spread of the disease by acting as a barrier to the emission of droplets. However, WHO recommends wearing masks if you have respiratory symptoms, suspect you may be infected or have been with someone suspected of being infected.
Is it safe to take orders from China? Yeah, it says WHO. "From experience with other coronaviruses, we know that these types of viruses do not survive much on objects, such as cards or packages", explainYeah. The ECDC adds that "there is no evidence that food imported into the European Union, in accordance with the applicable public and animal health regulations governing imports from China, represents a health risk".
Are foreign nationals being evacuated from the city of Wuhan? At the end of January the European Civil Protection Mechanism was activated at the request of France. Several countries, including Portugal, withdrew citizens living in the Wuhan city, which is the epicentre of the epidemic. The 20-citizen group that arrived in Portugal, including two Brazilian nationals, is under voluntary quarantine at Pulido Valente Hospital and Health Park in Lisbon.
What has been done to control the transmission? DGS summarises that since 23 January and by decision of the Chinese authorities all flights and public transport in Wuhan City, Hubei Province have been cancelled. Similar measures have also been implemented in other neighbouring cities and the movement of public transport and closed cinemas and other public spaces with concentration of people has been interrupted.China has also implemented health screening measures for travellers leaving the country at airports, ports and land borders. Other countries are also limiting the entry of people who were in China less than 14 days ago, although there is no WHO recommendation for border cuts.
What measures does Portugal have active? Portugal has implemented a protocol of action against cases that may be considered suspicious. Anyone who thinks they have symptoms or has doubts should contact the SNS 24 line instead of going to a health centre or hospital.
The person should be investigated to se e if there are symptoms and if they have been in the affected area or with people who show symptoms and have been in the affected areaYeah. The person must, in case of suspected infection, be isolated and wear a mask. Professionals should also use protection. The healthcare professional should contact the medical support line for case validation or not.
There are ways of the INEM designated for transporting suspicious cases to the three reference hospitals Curry Cabral and Dona Estefania (Lisbon) and San Juan (Porto). Other units may receive these citizens, following the DGS indications. Close contacts must be monitored.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The National Institute of Health Dr. Ricardo Jorge is the reference laboratory in Portugal for conducting tests to prove the presence or otherwise of infection with the new coronavirus. The results can be obtained after five to six hours.
Does Portugal control flights arriving from China? No. At a press conference, the Director General for Health Grace Freitas explained that "screening must be done on the way out and China", following the WHO's indications. "In SARS and other epidemics, thousands of people screened at entry [this practice] did not lead to the detection of any case. Widespread screening is not considered an appropriate screening,"said the responsible woman, yet. There are protocols to inform the health authorities on the ground if there is a suspicious case detected in an aeroplane or boat, as well as indications of disinfection procedures.
What is the risk in Europe? The possibility of importing cases to EU/EEA countries is'moderate to high'. However, the likelihood of secondary transmission in the EU/EEA'is low, provided that the practices of prevention and control of infection related to a possible imported case are met'. Although there are cases registered in several European countries, the number is very limited and several have links to the city of Wuhan in China