SINGAPORE — Nine more confirmed cases of Covid-19 infection have emerged in Singapore, with six of these linked to the Grace Assembly of God cluster, the Ministry of Health (MOH) said on Friday (Feb 14). 
 A total of 67 people have been infected with the Covid-19 virus in Singapore so far, 13 of whom are linked to the church, making it the biggest cluster here. 
 The MOH also said on Friday that two more patients have been discharged from hospital and are well, while another six remain in the intensive care unit and are critically ill. So far, 17 patients have now been discharged. 
 An employee of national water agency PUB is among the new cases. 
 PUB said in a statement on Friday that one of its employees tested positive for Covid-19. The infected employee is an administrative staff who works in the Environment Building, and is not involved in PUB’s plant or field operations, the agency said. 
 To facilitate immediate and thorough cleaning and disinfection of the office space, all 70 employees on the affected level in the Environment Building were asked to leave their workstations and telecommute for the rest of the day on Friday, it added. 
 “There was no evacuation of the Environment building. The affected office space, as well as common areas such as lifts, pantry and toilets are now being cleaned and disinfected in accordance with National Environment Agency guidelines. Staff are expected to return to work on Monday as usual.” 
  
 THE CONFIRMED CASES 
 Case 59 
 Case 59 is a 61-year-old male Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID). 
 He reported onset of symptoms on Feb 7 and sought treatment at Farrer Park Hospital’s emergency care clinic on Feb 10. He went to the emergency department at Mount Elizabeth Hospital on Feb 12 and was conveyed by ambulance to NCID on Feb 13. Subsequent test results confirmed Covid-19 infection on Feb 13 afternoon. 
 Prior to hospital admission, he had mostly stayed home at Wilkinson Road except to seek medical treatment. He works at a private hospital in Singapore, and was not at work since the onset of symptoms. He has no known interactions with past cases. 
 Case 60 
 Case 60 is a 51-year-old female Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. She is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. She is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of God. 
 She reported onset of symptoms on Feb 8 and sought treatment at a general practitioner (GP) clinic on the same day. She went to NCID on Feb 12 and was immediately isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed Covid-19 infection on Feb 13 afternoon. 
 Prior to hospital admission, she had mostly stayed at her home at Ang Mo Kio Avenue 3 and went to work at Grace Assembly of God (Tanglin). 
 Case 61 
 Case 61 is a 57-year-old male Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation room at the National University Hospital (NUH). He is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of God. 
 He reported onset of symptoms on Feb 6, and sought treatment at a GP clinic on the same day and again on Feb 8. He went to Ng Teng Fong General Hospital on Feb 9 and Pioneer Polyclinic on Feb 11 and Feb 12. Subsequent test results confirmed Covid-19 infection on Feb 13 afternoon. 
 Prior to hospital admission, he reported that he had mostly stayed at home at Jurong West Street 64, except to go to work for a day at Legacy Office Supplies Pte Ltd (56 Senang Crescent). 
 Case 62 
 Case 62 is a 44-year-old female Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. She is currently warded in an isolation room at the Singapore General Hospital (SGH). She is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of God. 
 She reported onset of symptoms on Feb 9, and sought treatment at a GP clinic the next day. She went to SGH on Feb 12 and was immediately isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed Covid-19 infection on Feb 13 afternoon. 
 Prior to hospital admission, she reported that he had mostly stayed at home at Tanjong Pagar Road, except to seek medical treatment. 
 Cases 63 to 67 
 MOH has initiated epidemiological investigations and contact tracing to identify individuals who had close contact with the following cases who were confirmed to have Covid-19 infection on Feb 14 morning. 
 Case 63: 54-year-old female Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. She is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of God. 
 Case 64: 50-year-old male Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. 
 Case 65: 61-year-old female Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. She is a family member of Case 50 and Case 55. 
 Case 66: 28-year-old male Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. He is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of God. 
 Case 67: 56-year-old female Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. She is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of God, and is a family member of Case 61. 
 MOH also gave more details of several cases named on Thursday. 
 Case 54 
 Case 54 is a 55-year-old female Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. She is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. She works at Grace Assembly of God (Tanglin) (355 Tanglin Road). 
 She reported onset of symptoms on Feb 10 and had sought treatment at a GP clinic the next day. She went to NCID on Feb 12 and was subsequently tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Feb 13 morning. 
 Prior to hospital admission, she had mostly stayed at her home at Ang Mo Kio Avenue 5, except to seek medical treatment. 
 Case 55 
 Case 55 is a 30-year-old male Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. He is a family member of the 62-year-old Singaporean man and employee of DBS bank who worked at Marina Bay Financial Centre and found to be infected on Feb 12. 
 He reported onset of symptoms on Jan 30 and had sought treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, and again on Feb 3. He went to NCID on Feb 12 and was subsequently tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Feb 13 morning. 
 Prior to hospital admission, he had gone to work at Pulau Bukom and attended mass at the Church of Christ the King (2221 Ang Mo Kio Avenue 8). He stays at Mei Hwan Drive. 
 Case 56 
 Case 56 is a 30-year-old male Bangladesh national with no recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. He is linked to the cluster at the Seletar Aerospace Heights construction site. 
 He had been identified as a close contact of Case 47, and was quarantined. He reported onset of symptoms on Feb 12 and was taken to Tan Tock Seng Hospital where he was immediately isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed Covid-19 infection on Feb 13 morning. 
 Prior to hospital admission, he had been quarantined at a government quarantine facility. 
 Case 57 
 Case 57 is a 26-year-old male Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. He is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of God. 
 He reported onset of symptoms on Feb 11 and had gone to NCID on the same day where he was immediately isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed Covid-19 infection on Feb 13 morning. 
 Prior to hospital admission, he had gone to work at Grace Assembly of God. He stays at Senja Road. 
 Case 58 
 Case 58 is a 55-year-old male Singaporean with no recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. He is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of God. 
 He reported onset of symptoms on Feb 10 and went to NCID on Feb 12. Subsequent test results confirmed Covid-19 infection on Feb 13 morning. 
 Prior to hospital admission, he had gone to work at Grace Assembly of God. He stays at Jalan Kelichap. 
  
 HOW SOME PATIENTS ARE LINKED TO CLUSTERS 
 Cases 8, 9, 31, 33 and 38 are linked to The Life Church and Missions Singapore (146B Paya Lebar Road). 
 Nine of the confirmed cases (Cases 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28, 34 and 40) are linked to the cluster associated with Yong Thai Hang (24 Cavan Road). 
 Three of the confirmed cases (Cases 30, 36 and 39) are linked to the private business meeting held at Grand Hyatt Singapore from Jan 20 to 22. 
 Four of the confirmed cases (Cases 42, 47, 52 and 56) are linked to the Seletar Aerospace Heights construction site. 
 Thirteen of the confirmed cases (Cases 48, 49, 51, 53, 54, 57, 58, 60, 61, 62, 63, 66 and 67) are linked to the Grace Assembly of God. 
 