This Tuesday, the Portuguese consulate in Macao and Hong Kong advised the Portuguese community to follow the guidelines of the authorities of the territory as part of the prevention measures against the new Chinese coronavirus.
"The general consulate of Portugal advises the Portuguese community resident in Macao to follow the advice and guidelines of the public health authorities of Macao, says the general consul, Paulo Cunha-Alves, in an email sent to Lusa.
In the same text, the diplomat stressed that, despite the closure of the consular services, a service picket was created to respond to the most urgent cases. "The consular services have been closed to the general public since the beginning of the Chinese Lunar New Year festivities. However, since the 30th day in January we have been operating with a picket line of some officials to deal with the most urgent and other cases related to situations in the new coronavirus crisis," added.
"Applying to the general consulate the guidelines issued by the chief executive to the RAEM civil servants, we will remain closed to the general public and keep the picket service in the consular chancellery," said the diplomat.
The general consulate of Portugal in Macao and Hong Kong can be reached by phone 00 853 2835 6660, by email [protected email] or via message on the respective page of the social network Facebook.
At a press conference earlier this afternoon (local time), the head of the Macao government announced that casinos would be closed for two weeks, as well as the continued suspension of basic public service services. Only if urgent services are to be maintained with the main aim of reducing the movement of persons, he saidYeah. Ho Iat Seng also admitted that the territory is considering closing the borders with China.
The ruler explained that closing the borders is a difficult decision because it is necessary to evaluate the impact on food supply to the territory and because it adds constraints to the daily routine of many Macao residents and many workers of the territory living in China.
"We are not closing any borders, they will not run to buy food. We have enough stock, don't worry,"he said.
The person responsible also called on the population not to leave the house and "reduce to the maximum commercial activities". "I cannot have them closed," he said, on commercial spaces, but "if they do not have customers, the traders themselves will decide to close the business," he said.
However, shortly thereafter there was a supermarket rush. In at least six of these Taipa island spaces, the scenario was the same: crowded corridors, huge queues to make the payment, with people in masks pushing shopping cars where they were stacked meat packs, canned goods, rice bags and water bottles.
On the other hand, it was possible to see queues in the streets to enter spaces that sell frozen foods, which rivaled others that have been maintained for more than a week to purchase rational sales masks in pharmacies.
The Macao government has acquired all twenty million masks. Each resident, upon presentation of identification, receives ten masks for the same number of days. As for disinfectants, exhausted in Macao, Ho Iat Seng said he will not use the same method of rationing for the population. "We will not guarantee this type of product" for the population, he saidYeah.
The leader of the Macao government revealed that the territory purchased masks in countries such as the United States and Portugal, but because of the coronavirus outbreak and the large amount of this medical equipment used in China, he is finding it "difficult to get more masks on the foreign market".
"At the moment, Portugal no longer has any masks," he said. Authorities have reported that more than 2.9 million masks have been sold since the announcement of the first case of infection in Macao two weeks ago.
As for disinfectants, also exhausted in Macao, Ho Iat Seng stressed that he will not use the same method of rationing for the population. "We will not guarantee this type of product" for the population, he said. "It is important in hospitals and homes (...), these must be guaranteed," he said, adding that four tons of disinfectant products have been acquired. "The priority is for medical workers (...), we do not want doctors and nurses to be infected," he said.
The press conference to publicize the exceptional measures took place on the day Macao announced that it had identified the tenth case of infection in the territory and accepted the possibility of a Community outbreak in the light of the scenario of a case of local contamination.
China elevated to 426 dead and more than twenty.400 infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak in the country caused by a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (centre), which has cities under quarantine, affecting about five million people.
Hong Kong announced this morning the first coronavirus-related death.
The old British territory suspended sea links with Macao and closed almost all land and sea borders with the continent to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus. Only two border checkpoints, Shenzhen Bay and Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge, will remain opeYeah.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are more cases of confirmed infection in 24 countries.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared on Thursday an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures.
The head of the Macao government said this Tuesday that Portugal no longer has masks to sell to the territory, but assured that Macao has enough masks to
On the same occasion, Ho Iat Seng admitted that the territory is considering closing the borders with China, but for the moment only the temporary closure of the casinos is decided, due to the new coronavirus. The first step is to suspend the activities of casinos,'then we will analyse'the situation and take the appropriate and necessary measures.
He assumed that the suspension of casinos was a "difficult decision" and that it "will cause a lot of economic damage, but Macao manages to take that risk".
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
This Tuesday morning, China had elevated to 426 dead and more than 20.400 infected the balance of the pneumonia outbreak caused by a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) detected last December in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province (in the center of the country), placed under quarantine.
In addition to the mainland of China and the Chinese regions of Macao and Hong Kong, there are more cases of confirmed infection in 24 other countries.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared on Thursday an international public health emergency, which presupposes the adoption of worldwide prevention and coordination measures