The new coronavirus seems to spread more easily at lower temperatures, says a study by Sun Yat-sen University of Canton, which would explain the low number of cases in Africa and Latin America. "Temperature can significantly alter the covid-19 transmission", explains the scientists in the study, cited by the South China Morning Post.
The authors of the study analyzed all the confirmed cases in the world between 20-January and 4th February, including more than 400 cities and regions of China, and then cross-referenced them with official data on Chinese meteorology and the capitals of each of the countries affected. The model shows that the number of cases increases until it reaches a peak at 8,72 degrees Celsius, starting to drop below that temperature.
The study was published last month, but still awaiting confirmation by other scientists, the so-called peer review. However, Hassan Zaraket, Assistant Director of the Investigation Centre for Infectious Diseases at American University in Beirut, claims to the same newspaper that given what is known about other coronaviruses, "a s temperatures heat up, the stability of the virus may decrease." However, he adds that "we are still learning about the virus".
That's why Mike Ryan, executive director of the World Health Organization, recommends that it's best not to start thinking that the epidemic will end automatically when summer comes to the Northern Hemisphere.
"We have to assume that the virus will continue to be able to spread," said Ryan. It's a false hope to say that, okay, it'll disappear like the cold. And there is no proof,"he explained on Friday.
A study by several researchers, including epidemiologist Marc Lipsitch from the School of Public Health T. Yeah. Chan of Harvard University states that "the increase in temperature and humidity a s spring and summer months reach the Northern Hemisphere will not necessarily lead to a decrease in the number of cases without the implementation of extended health interventions". This study was also published in February and is also awaiting peer review.
Yuen Kwok-yung, Hong Kong's most important microbiologist, said on Sunday in a television interview that the epidemic is most likely not to end this year. "We think there is a high probability that the epidemic will not end this year," he said, at a time when China is afraid of importing new cases from outside.
"There will be what we call importing cases back. At first, other countries were afraid of us, now we are afraid of them,"explained the professor at the University of Hong Kong.
This is why Macao decided to impose a two-week mandatory quarantine from Tuesday for those who "had been to Germany, Spain, France or Japan within the 14-day period prior to entry" in the Special Administrative Region.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The measure had already been implemented for people from South Korea on the 26th day of February, and Italy and Iran, the 29th of February.
According to Lusa, the territory has no confirmed case of coronavirus infection for a 33-day period and the ten patients who have been diagnosed with covid-19 have already been released