The Macao government today appealed to residents not to travel to South Korea, due to the "flex" rise of confirmed new coronavirus cases in recent days and announced the cancellation of flights to the country.
"Within a few days the number of confirmed cases has increased in arrow" in South Korea, said the coordinator of the Prevention Core and Infectious Diseases and Disease Surveillance, Leong Iek Hou, at a press conference.
The authorities also added that they consider South Korea a high-incidence area of Covid-19 and that is why people entering Macao who have been in South Korea in the last 14 days before their arrival will be subjected to essential medical examinations required by the Health Services.
This measure enters into force on Monday, the Government of Macao indicated. All flights will be cancelled from March 1st, they added.
The South Korean Government has raised the alert today for contagious diseases to the "red" level, the maximum scale, due to the increase in infection of Covid-19 coronavirus, which has already infected 56 people in the Asian country.
The executive decided to activate the protocol after the number of infections has multiplied by 17 in the last five days, especially around the town of Daegu, in the southeast of the country.
"Covid-19's problem has reached a turning point", said South Korean President Moon Jae-in, quoted by Yonhap agency at the meeting held with members of his cabinet to activate the new alert level and in which he said "the next days will be very important" for the evolution of the epidemic.
South Korea today announced yet another death caused by the Covid-19 coronavirus, with four deaths in the country, while the total number of infected people is already 56.Yeah.
According to the South Korean Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (KCDC), a 57-year-old man died on Saturday at Daenam Hospital in Daegu, where two other fatalities were hospitalized.
In the same hospital, 111 infections were reported, leading authorities to consider that this medical center may be a secondary focus of infection.
The KCDC has quarantined more than six thousand people at a time when the epidemic entered a local contagion phase.
On the other hand, the number of infected with Covid-19 coronavirus in Macao dropped four on Wednesday after a new hospital discharge announced by the local health services at a press conference.
This is a 66-year-old man who was 28 days hospitalized from the Chinese city of Wuhan, where the new coronavirus began, which has killed more than two thousand people worldwide.
Of the ten cases reported in Macao, this is the sixth patient to be discharged, and four other people are still hospitalized.
Even at today's press conference, authorities indicated that from the 1.565 suspected cases in Macao, 1.550 were excluded by the authorities, with five awaiting results of analysis.
75 tests were carried out in the last 24-hour period and the health authorities were underlined on the day the 19th day without new cases taking place in the territory.
The number of deaths of Covid-19 coronavirus has risen today to 2.442 in mainland China, with more 97 fatalities in the last 24-hour period, officials announced.
The China Health Commission reported more 648 new cases of infection for a total of 76.938.