The World Health Organisation (WHO) says that it takes 675 million dollars (about 613 million euros) to implement a global plan to combat viruses in the next three months, this Wednesday was announced at a press conference. The WHO also revealed that experts will meet in Geneva (Switzerland) to 11 and 12 in February to set priorities in research and development of medicines, diagnostics and vaccines. So far, there are almost 25 thousand infected people and almost 500 deaths from this virus.
For now, the WHO has called for a fund of 675 million dollars to combat the virus in the world and in China between February and April. Of these, 60 million dollars (about 54 million euros) will be for WHO operations and the rest for those countries that are especially at risk. This is the budget for the Strategic Plan of Preparation and Response, which includes activities and resources for international organizations to combat the new coronavirus. The aim is to limit the transmission between people, especially in the most vulnerable countries, as well as to identify, isolate and care for patients early, or to minimise the economic and social impact.
"My greatest concern is in countries that today have no systems to operate to detect people infected by the virus," said Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. "Urgent support is needed to reinforce health systems that detect, diagnose and protect more transmission between humans and healthcare professionals." Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director General of the WHO, also said that "very soon" a WHO team will go to China.
"The effectiveness of the response to the outbreak depends on preparatory measures," said Mike Ryan, director of the WHO emergency programme. "This is why we are seeking resources to safeguard the most vulnerable countries."
One of the big issues is also the advance in treatments for the new coronavirusYeah. So far, there's no specific drug or vaccine against the virus. Due to some speculation on the development of new treatments, the WHO has made a point of reinforcing this week that "there are still no effective therapies against this 2019-nCoV" and that several experts are meeting this month to set the priorities for these advances.
Although there has been no specific treatment, the Chinese Government has suggested antiviral drugs used to treat HIV, such as lopinavir and ritonavir, and the inhalation of a dose of clouded interferon-alpha twice a day. Gilead Sciences is also testing an antiviral therapy for Ebola virus with patients infected with the new coronavirus.
As for the vaccine, scientists in Australia have developed a version of the laboratory-grown virus, which may be an important step in the development of a vaccine. Also, the Alliance for Epidemic Ready Innovations (CEPI) has already announced that three different research teams are developing vaccines and that the objective is to start clinical trials in June.
The Russian health minister, Mikhail Murashko, also said this Wednesday that scientists in Russia hope it will take at least eight to ten months to develop a vaccine for the virus. "Today the process of developing a vaccine is not done in a short period of time. A vaccine is being developed in at least eight to ten months,"he said, quoted by the Russian Interfax News Agency. Last week, Russia announced that it was working on a vaccine with China.
The choice of a new name for this virus, temporarily designated 2019-nCoV by the WHO, may appear somewhat smaller. "The name [official] of the new virus is very late because the focus so far has been on public health response," said Crystal Watson, professor at Johns Hopkins Center for Health Safety (USA), cited on the BBC websitYeah. However, there are some reasons why the name choice becomes more of a priority. "When we do not have an official name, there is a danger that people will start using terms like'Chinese virus'and that they may create a negative reaction against certain populations."
The International Committee on Virus Taxonomy (ICTV) is responsible for choosing the name. According to the Committee's guidelines, the name shall not include geographical locations, names of persons, the name of an animal or type of food, or references to a culture or industry. This name should be short and descriptive, such as SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome). A group from ICTV is already deliberating on the new name.
Official names can also become a problem. Moreover, in 2015, WHO criticised the name MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome) as it could provoke, for example, a negative reaction against members of religious and ethnic communities.
There is still a lot to uncover about the virus, but one of the data that is thought to be already acquired is what transmission can occur in the period before the onset of symptoms. Initially, one of the strongest evidence for this hypothesis came from a Chinese woman who had had a meeting in Munich: she would have infected other people and would have had symptoms only days later. This situation was published in The New England Journal of Medicine. However, the researchers had only relied on the accounts of German patients. The Robert Koch Institute, the German public health agency, and the Bavarian Food Safety and Health Authority spoke to the Chinese patient and were now informed that she still had symptoms during her stay in Germany. Despite this new information, other data substantiate the hypothesis that asymptomatic transmission takes place.
This Wednesday also announced the case of the youngest person infected with the new coronaviruYeah. The Chinese media reported that a baby was diagnosed with the virus only thirty hours after birth, referred to in the English newspaper The Guardian. According to Chinese state television CCTV, the virus had been detected in the baby's mother before delivery. This Wednesday also confirmed four more cases in Singapore, including a six-month-old baby.
Also on the transmission of the virus, it was confirmed in the last week that a doctor who issued an alert on the coronavirus is also infected. The story of this ophthalmologist, Li Wenliang, began in mid-December when he wrote a message in his group of college friends. In this message, you said that in your hospital there were seven patients with SARS-like symptoms. He would also ask that his friends and their families be careful.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
As the message eventually went viral, the police accused him of spreading rumors, which could lead to his arrest for seven years. According to the Spanish newspaper El Pais, seven other doctors received the same warning. The doctor eventually had to sign a statement in which he assumed his failure and promised not to do the same again. A few days later, he became infected with the new coronavirus after treating a patient.
The new coronavirus has not yet arrived in Africa, but the African Disease Control and Prevention Centres have already activated their emergency operations center to tackle the virus and are organising a workshop in Senegal for 15 African countries.
An isolation wing is ready in the hospital in Khartoum, Sudan. Laboratories in Senegal, Nigeria, Ghana, South Africa, Madagascar or Sierra Leone already have the equipment to detect the viruYeah. Passengers arriving at Cameroon or Gambia airports are being monitored for fever and other viral symptoms. The Democratic Republic of Congo has already prevented its citizens from travelling to China. Burkina Faso asked Chinese citizens to postpone their trips. Kenya, Rwanda and Tanzania have suspended flights to China