Health Minister Marta Temido just confirmed the first case of coronavirus infection, Covid-19, in Portugal. This is a 60-year-old man whose "state of health is stable" and who began symptoms on February 29. The man, a physician by profession, works at the Hospitality Centre of Tamega and Sousa and was in northern Italy on holiday. He is admitted to the University Hospital Centre of Porto (St. Anthony's Hospital) in Porto.
The second case had a positive analysis, but still needs confirmation, which will emerge from the counter-analysis carried out at the Dr. Ricardo Jorge Institute. According to the Ministry of Health, the patient is 33-year-old, also in a stable condition and began to have symptoms at 26 in February. It does not have an epidemical link to Italy, but Valencia, Spain, and is currently confined to St John's Hospital, also in Oporto.
Marta Temido told me that both patients were admitted to the hospitals this Sunday. The minister promised to warn "as soon as possible if the second case is confirmed.
Regardless of the results, the minister gave "a message of tranquility" and asked "active surveillance" of the population. Like the Director-General of Health, Grace Freitas, who intervened after the minister at the same press conference, Portuguese are recommended to first contact the SNS24 support line, in case of doubts or symptoms, "rather than addressing health services". Health lines have been strengthened for this purpose.
Grace Freitas has reinforced that we still don't know everything about the virus. "We know something about other'corona'that circulate. We know that epidemics happen by waves, that they can be large and abrupt, or smaller and controlled. We cannot control nature, but we must placate the wave and reduce its size."The peak of the outbreak in Portugal cannot be predictedYeah. "The peak is unknown because we do not know the dynamics" of Covid-19.
The Health Minister also announced that flights from Italy will be controlled, as hitherto the flights from China.
The Directorate-General for Health had done a review on Saturday that pointed to 73 suspicious cases in Portugal, data as negative, and other 12 in analysis.
The Covid-19 outbreak began in December in the Chinese province of Hubei, where the largest number of infected people are still infected. The virus, which can cause respiratory infections such a s pneumonia, has already caused nearly three thousand deaths and infected nearly 87 thousand people, according to the World Health Organisation. More than 44 thousand people, however, have recovered from the disease.
News updated at 11h07 with information from the Minister of Health on the two cases mentione