Grace Freitas, Director-General of Health, spoke to journalists this evening about the possible closure of schools and the identified cases at the Santa Maria Hospital in Lisbon.
"The opinion of the Council [National Public Health] meets the current epidemiological reality in our country and what public health measures should be", started by saying Grace Freitas. In other words, we must not create disproportionate measures in advance, we must do them according to the risk and according to what the health authorities evaluate."
He continued: "At this time, at this stage, with this epidemiological reality, what the council recommends or considers is what makes sense: at each location, in each region, health authorities will examine the concrete situation and may determine the closure of a school or part of a school or several schools if justified."
The Director-General of Health also explained that closing schools would lead to mandatory follow-up, so children or young people would have to stay with their parents or grandparents. "They would stay with their parents, or one of them, or grandparents, who could have worse consequences given their fragile situation. So at the moment the recommendation to close schools on a case-by-case basis remains. On a case-by-case basis, the situation for as long as it takes for the situation to be controlled at the level of risk and transmission. We have to live with these circumstances."
The Director-General of Health was also asked about the World Health Organization's option to decree a Covid-19 pandemic, the new Wuhan coronavirus in China. We were already in a state of pandemic so it was the formal statemenYeah. In one country in particular the situation has not changed because the WHO has decreed that we are in a state of pandemic. The WHO has made official an epidemiological circumstance that we already knew: a new virus has emerged, this virus has spread across continents and various countries, which are not all at the same stage of the epidemic. The WHO has merely formalised a situation that already existed and everyone knows it.
Grace Freitas also commented on the two cases identified this Wednesday at the Santa Maria Hospital in Lisbon, which were two patients who were already in hospital a few days ago. Why are they diagnosed now? It should be noted that according to international guidelines, the case definition has changed. Therefore, hospitals complied with the case definition and were researching patients who had been admitted with pneumonia and severe respiratory disease,"was responding to the Director-General of Health, with the Minister of Health at her side.
And he added, "Yes, they appeared after changing the case definition," to allow tracing more cases, to detect even more cases. Hospitals went to see the admitted patients who had atypical pneumonia and had no other known cause did the research for Covid-19.
As to the fact that they were not sent home, Grace Freitas has revealed that the hospital is acting accordingly. With regard to the other patients and doctors and professionals, the protocol for close contact is obviously being applied, tests are being carried out, people may have to be left in isolation. The region's health authority, together with hospital and board of directors, have again assessed the risk and exposure, have carried out tests, we are waiting for results, some are already negative. They are acting accordingly. We have to say that we are facing an epidemic that will have consequences for our lives, there are many things unknown.