The briefing by the World Health Organisation (WHO) this Wednesday brought about a significant change: Covid-19, brought about by the new coronavirus, has been officially declared a "pandemic". Almost three months after it began in the Chinese city of Wuhan, the virus that has now spread to the rest of the world ceases to be treated as an "epidemic".
On Twitter, and in the voice of Tedros Ghebreyesus, Director General, the WHO warns that "pandemic is not a word to be used lightly or carelessly". "It is a word that, if misused, can cause irrational fear or an unjustified acceptance that the struggle has ended, leading to unnecessary suffering and death."
According to the WHO's own definition, an epidemic is an outbreak of a disease that spreads unexpectedly at local, regional or national level. The C.D.C., an American organization of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, says it happens when you give "an increase, often sudden, in the number of cases of an illness above what is normally expected" for that area.
By contrast, the WHO defined the pandemic as "the worldwide spread of a new disease" affecting a large number of people. According to the last count, Covid-19 has already been diagnosed in more than 122 thousand people from 121 countries- there are over 66 thousand cured.
Being declared a pandemic is hardly a surprise. "The threat of a pandemic is becoming more and more real", said the same Ghebreyesus last week. The time gap between the spread of Covid-19 and the WHO statement has been explained as an attempt to halt panic on the one hand and, on the other, as it has been believed to date that the outbreak could be contained and limited to certain countries.
From now on it no longer makes sense to think about containing Covid-1Yeah. It is a "pandemic", i.e. a "new internationally disseminated disease". That is why countries will no longer try to stop new infected people from entering and will have to worry about the way in which the disease is transmitted among their citizens.
When there is an epidemic in one country, others can close down and send aid to the affected country or countries. Sending masks and protective material to Wuhan at the start of the outbreak is an example of the measures taken in such cases.
But when it passes into a pandemic, all countries are considered infected and therefore each one should look within their own borders and try to work on healing or resolving the disease more than prevention. International organisations such as the WHO or the United Nations are obliged to divide resources around the world, which means new difficulties, need for more people, more money, more capacity to supply to fight the disease.
"We have never seen a pandemic caused by a coronavirus", warns the WHO, who claims to be totally focused on combat since the first patient was diagnosed. "81 countries did not report any case of Covid-19 and 57 countries reported ten cases or less. We cannot say this loud enough or with sufficient clarity or frequency: all countries can still change the course of this pandemic."
Nowadays, worldwide there are records of 121.564 confirmed cases of infection; there are four.373 confirmed deaths (3.046 in China) and 66.239 people already recovered.
Portugal should enter the so-called mitigation phase within the next few hours, which is characterized by local transmission in a closed environment and community transmission. This is the last phase of response