The European Commission announced this Wednesday that it will co-finance the repatriation of EU citizens who were on board the Diamond Princess cruise ship, docked in Yokohama, Japan, by aircraft leaving Italy.
After a two-week quarantine due to the new coronavirus (Covid-19), these European passengers will be repatriated on Italian planes, the first aircraft has already left for Japan and the second will leave tonight, the EU executive has said in communication.
It will be up to the Italian medical team, on board each of these flights, to assess the passengers on the spot and "only those who have been reported as negative Covid-19 cases or who have no symptoms of the disease will be able to board" in these repatriation operations, explains Brussels.
"Upon arrival in Europe, passengers will begin a new period of quarantine organised and monitored by each Member State," added the Community executive, noting that the official numbers and nationalities of these passengers will only be known in the next few days.
This support provided by Brussels follows on from the activation of the European Civil Protection Mechanism, and there is therefore provision for cofinancing by the European Commission of the costs of these repatriation operations. Up to now, within the framework of this mechanism, Brussels has already supported the repatriation of 400 EU citizens in China in aircraft organised by France and Germany.
Quoted by the note, the European Commissioner for Crisis Management, Janez Lenarcic, points out that "the EU continues to work 24-hour hours a day, seven days a week, both to support the Member States and China". Currently, we are still working to send supplies to China in the coming days", says the responsiblYeah.
Around 500 passengers left the Diamond Princess cruise ship this Wednesday, which is docked in Yokohama, Japan, after two weeks'quarantine due to the new coronavirus (Covid-19). The quarantine, much criticized by passengers confined to the ship, could not prevent the contagion of more than 600 people on board.
The failure of the quarantine was underlined when authorities announced today more 79 cases of contagion by the new coronavirus, Invi-19, raising the total on the ship to 621. People with positive tests for the new coronavirus are being taken to medical centers for treatment.
The Japanese authorities should spend the next three days conducting the landing of about two.000 passengers. The Covid-19 coronavirus has already caused 2.004 deaths in mainland China and infected more than 74 thousand people worldwide. In addition to the victims on the Chinese continent, there is a dead person registered in the Chinese region of Hong Kong, one in the Philippines, one in Japan, one in France and one in Taiwan