The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has today revised the estimates for world growth by the new coronavirus downwards of 0.5 percentage points for 2.4%this year.
"In the assumption that the peaks of the epidemic in China in the first quarter of 2020 and the outbreaks in other countries prove to be moderate and contained, world growth could be downgraded by about 0,5 percentage points [p.p.] this year relative to what was expected in the economic forecast for November of 2019," can be read in the report of the interim economic forecasts which have been released today.
According to the document now known, the growth of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the euro zone for 2020 was also revised downwards, but 0,3 p.p. is now estimated in 0,8% by the'hitch'of the decelerations of Germany (0,1 p.p. to 0,3%), France (0,3 p.p. to 0,9%) and Italy (0.4.p.p. for an economic activity stagnation%0).
Economic growth in the United Kingdom was also revised downwards from 0,2 p.p. to 0,8%, that of the United States in 0,1 p.p. to 1,9%, that of Japan in 0,4 p.p. to 0,2% and that of South Korea, one of the countries most affected by Covid-19 disease, 0,3 p.p. to 2,0%.0.
As far as China is concerned, the OECD foresees a decline in 0,8 p.p. the economic growth of 2020, now estimating 4.9%of increase in GDP.
Despite the downward review of the world economic growth in 2020 due to the outbreak of the new coronavirus, the OECD warns that an outbreak "more lasting and intensive, extended to the Asia-Pacific regions, Europe and North America would weaken the outlook considerably".
"In this case, world growth could drop to 1,5% in 2020, half the number projected before the outbreak of the virus", notes the organization based in PariYeah.
Recalling that the Chinese province of Hubei, the origin of the new coronavirus, contributes to 4,5%of local production, the OECD notes that "declinkages in production in China have been felt quickly by companies around the world, given China's key role in world production chains as a producer of intermediate goods, particularly computers, electronics, pharmaceuticals and transport equipment."
"Travel restrictions and cancellation of many visits, flights and work and leisure events are severely affecting many services. This will probably continue for some time", according to the OECD, noting that Chinese tourists represent about 10% of international tourism.
The organization chaired by A ngel Gurria further argues in its report that "stimulation of macroeconomic policy in the most exposed economies will help restore confidence as the effects of the virus outbreak and supply-side disruptions fade".
"Low interest rates should help cushion demand despite the impact of recent and projected changes in interest rate policy on [economic] activity should remain modest in advanced economies," according to the OECD.
In both China and the most affected economies, the OECD recommends that in the short term banks, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, provide'liquidity to the financial system', and not allow companies to go bankrupt during the implementation of measures to contain the outbreak