The Belgian political parties reached an agreement to grant "special powers" to the current management government led by Prime Minister Sophie Wilmes in order to allow an appropriate response to the outbreak of the new coronavirus.
The political agreement reached between "10 democratic parties"... excluding the extreme right-wing Flemish nationalist party Vlaams Belang and the radical left-wing French-speaking party PTB, which predicts that the current management government will be a full-fledgling executive by summer, was reached last night, should be'validated' This Monday by King Philippe and approved by the Senate by the end of the week.
However, strengthened powers will be limited exclusively to all measures to combat the outbreak of Covid-19, notably at budgetary and health level.
Belgium has not had a full-fledged government since December 2018, when the Flemish nationalists of the N-VA withdrew their support for the ruling coalition, dropping the executive led by the now President of the European Council, Charles Michel.
The national May elections in 2019, held on the same day as the European elections, plunged the country into a new political stalemate and, after almost ten months, the negotiations for the formation of a government are now temporarily suspended.
In Belgium, too, the virus is still spreading and new cases of infection have been confirmed this Monday 172, which is raising the total in the country to 1.058 and there are already five deaths.
The new Covid-19 pandemic coronavirus, detected last December in China, has already caused more than six.500 deaths worldwideYeah.
According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the epicentre of the pandemic shifted from China to Europe, where the second most serious case, that of Italy, announced new deaths in the last 24-hour period on Sunday 368, with more than one.800 being the number of fatalities in the country.
The number of infected worldwide is around 170 thousand people, with cases registered in at least 148 countries and territories, including Portugal, which has 245 confirmed cases. From the total infected, more than 77 thousand have recovered