The coronavirus is "the worst enemy imaginable" and represents a bigger global threat than terrorism, alerting the World Health Organisation (WHO). Urging the world to "wake up" and be as aggressive as possible in the fight against the outbreak, the UN health agency this Tuesday named the coronavirus COVID-19.
"CO" refers to the corona, "VI" to the virus, "D" to the "disease" and "19" to the year in which it emerged. The WHO ensured that the name would not make any reference to a geographical location, animal location or group of people. According to the Director-General of WHO, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, "having a name is important to prevent the use of other names that may be inaccurate or stigmatising".
China's health authorities expressed hopes that the outbreak would end in April, but Ghebreyesus is far less optimistic. Warning that the first vaccine for COVID-19 will only be ready within a year and a half, the Director General of the WHO stressed: "A virus is more powerful in creating political, social and economic turmoil than any terrorist attack."
"We are only as strong as our weakest link, and if this virus reaches weaker health systems, it will cause damage... The outbreaks can provoke political, social and economic upheavals affecting all areas of society,"he added, at a press conference.
The Executive Director of the WHO Health Emergency Program, Michael Ryan, said this Tuesday in Geneva, Switzerland, that COVID-19 has the potential to spread faster than Ebola viruses or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). Over the weekend, the new coronavirus exceeded the death toll of the SARS outbreak between 2002 and 2003.
The Chinese National Health Commission has updated the number of deaths for 1.113 and for 44.653 the number of cases confirmed in mainland ChinYeah. Overall, there are two more deaths to be recorded (one in the Philippines and one in Hong Kong), while the number of cases is currently in the 45.171.
Most of the new cases continue to be detected in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province, where the virus is believed to have originated in a shellfish and meat market in December. Outside that central province of China, new infections fell for the eight consecutive days.
This Tuesday was also the lowest number of new confirmed cases since early February, and Hubei reported less than two thousand new daily cases since February, writes the newspaper "South China Morning Post"