There are millions of Chinese people locked in their homes because of the coronavirus. So to avoid boredom, they do online shopping. The best-selling items are video game consoles, yoga mats, books and condoms, revealing the giant Alibaba electronic commerce giant, cited by Reuters.
With street shops and shopping centers closed and car and smartphone sales in decline, the demand for health, entertainment and cosmetic products is high and the best-selling brands are Lululemon's yoga clothes and L'Or al beauty products.
Nintendo's Ring Fit Adventure game for the Switch console, which combines exercises and dramatics, has been a sales success, these quadrupled in the last two weeks, Alibaba said. "There are no drugs that fight the virus, so all I can do is exercise healthy and stay fit," explains Guo Yan, 38 years, office worker, who bought the game recently.
Sales of yoga mats and rowing machines also shot up, a 250% increase during the same period, while book sales increased 60% in the week that began to 10th February, comparing to the previous week.
Although authorities have imposed strict rules on the use of masks whenever you are away from home, the sale of cosmetics such a s lipstick and shades for eyes will also increase in certain brands are selling seven times more lipsticks and their purchase of shadow pallets has increased 150%.
Lu Zhenwang, CEO of Wanqing Consulting, based in Shanghai, says that, although general electronic commerce volumes fell during the outbreak, there were some exceptions such as yoga mats and cosmeticYeah. "Now, people have a lot of time and are bored at home," he says, adding that women are taking the opportunity to practice new ways of using makeup.
Other Chinese e-commerce sites have also had some less common products in the rankings of the best-selling: Pinduoduo states that hair-cutting kits and condoms are among the ten most popular items, while JD.com says sales of baking and roasting equipment increased seven times its sales.
In South Korea, which increased coronavirus cases, health-related orders such as red ginseng, probiotics and vitamins increased 143% in the first twenty days of February compared to the same period as last year, according to Lotte Home Shopping.
Sales of small washing machines have also increased as people avoid going to the laundromats more than six times between 1 and 19 in February compared to the same period last month, according to the network of South Korean supermarkets Homeplus Co. Ltd.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The general scenario for consumer spending is gloomy, however, as the outbreak keeps a large part of China's population quarantined or simply discourages people from venturing out.
Download the PUBLIC app, subscribe to our notifications and be aware of the evolution of the new coronavirus