Flights from Italy will become the subject of greater passenger traceability, as was already being done with the three weekly flights arriving in Portugal from China. The announcement was made this Monday by the Health Minister at a press conference highlighting the existence of the first confirmed case in Portugal of the Covid-19 disease caused by the new coronavirus found at the end of last year in the Chinese city of Wuhan.
"At the moment, what is the general recommendation for people coming from an affected area, and where they may have had contact with patients, is to actively monitor and contact the SNS24 Line [808 24 24] for advice on what to do," The Minister stated that counselling will be given on a case-by-case basis and that further measures may be defined from that assessment.
Marta Temido stated that "the decision is already made to apply to flights from affected areas, as we have already done for flights from China, traceability of contacts and strengthening of information, insisting that they pay attention to their state of health and if they have symptoms call SNS24 instead of going to the health care units." "Let us extend this measure to flights from Italy," he said.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The Minister explained, with regard to traceability, that what they are going to do is "apply the [collection of] passenger identification, the contacts that she had, the place where she was sitting on the plane, in the case of subsequent contact with the SNS24 line or later validation of a case, more easily allow for work health authorities in identifying potentially hazardous contactsYeah.
"We have been following the dynamism of adapting response mechanisms in the light of developments in the situation, fulfilling what has also been requested by international organisations, a high sense of coordination and a proportional adoption of measures based on what the risk is that increases or decreases,"he said.
At the same conference, Marta Temido announced the existence of the first confirmed case in Portugal of COVID-19 disease, a 60-year-old doctor who has come on holiday from northern Italy and is confined to St. Anthony's Hospital in Porto. There is also a second case which is positive: the counter-analysis by the National Institute of Health, Dr Ricardo Jorge, of a 33-year-old man who is in hospital in St John, also in Oporto, is missing. This patient was in Valencia, Spain