The World Health Organisation (WHO) has once again stressed that young people "are not invincible" when it comes to the covid-19 pandemic, stressing that the disease can kill them or confine them to the hospital for weeks.
At a press conference at the headquarters of the organisation in Geneva, the Director General, Tedros Ghebreyesus said that, although mortality is higher among the older population, young people make choices about where they move "may mean the difference between life and death for other people".
WHO stresses that "the youngest are not spared" the disease and that people under 50-year-old are "a significant percentage of the infected".
"Solidarity, solidarity, solidarity" between countries and different age groups is "the key to defeating" the disease, said the person responsible, highlighting the "good news" recorded on Thursday in the city where the pandemic began, Wuhan, in China, where there were no new cases.
The Director-General of the World Health Organisation mentioned that the World Health Organisation is endeavouring to create mechanisms to prevent the spread of false news and unreliable information on covid-19, Advancing that there are still many citizens sharing information about "cures" or "conspiracy theories" that are not true.
Ghebreyesus further emphasised that it is necessary not only to increase all available material for the fight against the epidemic, but also to continue carrying out tests to identify infected citizens.
The person responsible has also asked all the world's citizens to try to maintain a balanced diet and a daily physical exercise routine so that "the immune system continues to function"Yeah.
Tedros Ghebreyesus stressed that one of the biggest concerns of the organization is what could happen in countries with weaker health systems and more vulnerable populations, where the disease could lead to "enormous loss of life".
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
These "are not inevitable" scenarios, he said, admitting that "every day tragic marks are reached" in the number of deaths and infected people.
Updated numbers from this Friday account for more than 265 thousand infected people in 182 countries and more than 11.000 killed all over the world