This Tuesday, Germany confirmed the first case of coronavirus contagion in a European citizen who did not travel to China. The German, 33-year-old, will have become infected after having had a meeting with a Chinese colleague visiting the country, explained to the Bavarian authorities where the citizen is hospitalized, quoted by the El Pais. According to the AFP, the examinations confirmed the infection this Monday evening.
The Chinese woman who infected the German patient is from Shanghai and will have "started to feel bad on the flight home, 23 in January", said Andreas Zapf, from the Bavarian health department.
There have also been two other cases of human contagion outside China: one in Vietnam and one in Japan, with the Japanese authorities confirming the first case of contagion in the country this Tuesday.
Meanwhile, China moved to 106 this Tuesday the number of deaths caused by the coronavirus detected in Wuhan. The number of new cases has also increased to 1300 and the latest balance sheet indicates the existence of infected 4000.
The latest data led Hong Kong to adopt a new strategy to try to prevent the spread of the disease. Carrie Lam, the head of the local executive, announced on Monday night the suspension of boat and train connections and the reduction to half flights to and from mainland China. The issue of authorisations for entry into the territory from China is also suspended.
"The flow of people between the two locations has to be drastically reduced," said Carrie Lam, quoted by the South China Morning Post.
As cases increase, several countries are trying to find a way to get nationals out of China, and Portugal is one of them.
In Hubei province, where the epidemic began, the new coronavirus has killed more 24 people and infected 1291Yeah. No deaths have yet been reported outside Hubei Province and the Chinese authorities are concentrating efforts in that province, sending almost 6000 doctors to the area. A total of 4130 doctors, integrated into thirty teams, have already arrived and started work, said Jiao Yahui, a head of the National Health Commission, During a press conference in Beijing, adding that 1800 more will arrive by the end of this Tuesday. The first teams were dispatched from Shanghai City and Guangdong Province on Friday.
The latest estimate indicates that more than fort00 are already confirmed infected in China. In addition to mainland China, cases of infection have also been reported in Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the United States, Singapore, Vietnam, Nepal, Malaysia, France, Germany, Australia and Canada.
The Wuhan region is under quarantine, which affects 56 million people. The quarantine, determined by the Chinese Government as a measure to prevent the transmission of this new coronavirus, cancelled most of Wuhan's long-haul air and ground transport out.
This Tuesday, the Japanese Government reported that it will be sending a charter flight to Wuhan to withdraw 200 from the 650 Japanese citizens in what was the epicentre city of the epidemic. "The Chinese side has informed us that it is now ready to accept a charter flight. The first flight to Wuhan Airport will leave tonight and we will also bring another kind of help,"said Toshimitsu Motegi to journalists, quoted by Lusa agency.
The United States follows in its footsteps, with a flight planned for Thursday night, although there is some doubt whether the schedule will be met, writes The Guardian. South Korea and France also want to remove their citizens from Chinese territory this week, but are studying possibilities with the Chinese authoritieYeah.
The same is true of Portugal: the Portuguese Government wants to withdraw the around-20 nationals stranded in Wuhan by air, using a chartered civilian aircraft that takes these Portuguese "directly to Portugal". The possibility of carrying out the operation together with other European Union countries within the European solidarity mechanism foreseen for this type of situation is considered.
In the Philippines, on the other hand, we opted to suspend visas to and from China, a "temporary" measure, which aims to reduce the influx of group travel from China, which is the second largest tourist market for the Philippines. Other countries, such as the US or the United Kingdom, are asking their citizens to avoid all non-essential travel to China.
The Portuguese Government strengthens this advice: "In the present circumstances, it is advisable at this time, and until the current situation is reviewed by the Chinese authorities, non-essential travel to China, not only for possible health risks but also for the present limitations on movement within the country", reads the Community Portal.
The Director General of Health said on Monday that the Portuguese living in Wuhan, the Chinese city of origin of the new coronavirus, "are healthy". "Initially, as far as we know, they [the Portuguese citizens living in Wuhan, China] are not symptomatic, nor are they sick. They are healthy and they are well. They will come [to Portugal] like any other asymptomatic passenger,"he said to the agency Lusa Grace Freitas.
Grace Freitas explained that, "how they come from the epicentre of the disease", on arrival in Portugal a "small medical history will be made to understand if they have been in contact with patients" infected with the new coronavirus or if they have been in contact with animalIf these citizens don't show symptoms, we know where they're going, we stay in touch with them, we contact the health authorities in the area of residence so that if they develop symptomatology in the next few days they can contact that health authority, the Director-General for Health (DGS) continued.
If any of these Portuguese develop symptoms, they should contact the health authorities recommended by the DGS, indicate if they have had contact with other people outside the residence, with patients or animals and "some social isolation precaution" may also be requested.
Grace Freitas further explained that there will be completely different health protocols if "they are already sick there [in Wuhan]" or if they show symptoms on board the plane. "They can board there without signs, symptoms and develop the signs and symptoms on board. There is also a protocol to this,"he said, clarifying that this will involve the commander of the aircraft alerting health authorities on the ground and those patients being removed.
The virus, nicknamed by the WHO as 2019-nCoV, is a form of coronavirus that has not yet been observed in humans. The most common symptoms include fever, cough and breathing difficulties. In more serious cases infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, renal failure or to death, according to WHO.
The coronavirus is "transmitted between animals and humans". "Detailed investigations have shown that SARS-CoV was transmitted between cats-civeta and humans and MERS-CoV from dromedary camels to humans", explains the WHO.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
Comparisons with severe acute respiratory syndrome (better known as SARS) are almost inevitable and com e out strengthened after the genome analysis of this new coronavirus, which has been shown to be more similar to SARS than any other coronaviruYeah. The last SARS outbreak started in South China and more than eight thousand cases were reported worldwide. About 800 people died between 2002 and 2003. Since 2004, no new case has been reported worldwide and the medical community has considered SARS eradicated. SARS symptoms are common to other viral respiratory infections: fever, chills, muscle pain, cough and difficulty breathing.
The Chinese authorities have admitted that the ability to spread the virus has increased. Infected persons may transmit the disease during the incubation period, which takes between one day and two weeks, without the virus being detected. The wearing of masks is now compulsory in most cities, writes the BBC. There's still no treatment or vaccine.
The government decided to extend the Lunar New Year's holiday period, which was due to end on Thursday, to try to limit population movements