Public services should draw up contingency plans for the Covid-19 outbreak, which will allow workers to be placed on telework or, where justified, in prophylactic isolation without loss of pay, the government announced this Monday.
In accordance with an order by the Minister for the Modernisation of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leito, which will be published this Monday in the Diary of the Republic, the public administration should draw up contingency plans in accordance with the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health (DGS), adapting them to the concrete situation of each service.
"This contingency plan will define several things, including the need to create sanitary conditions to prevent contagion, define who are responsible for implementing each of the measures defined in that plan and also (...), if justified and if possible, define alternative methods of delivery "from work," he told Lusa Alexandra Piglet.
Alternative methods include teleworking, distance training, if possible, or even occupational isolation of workers, i.e. staying at home to prevent any contagion.
"I would like to make a clear distinction here between teleworking situations, where the person is working normally, but it is an alternative way of working, and situations of occupational isolation in which the person cannot be teleworking," said the minister, referring, by way of example, the situation of an operational assistant whose functions can only be performed by being physically present at the workplace.
"In telework there is no change in retribution, that is, whatever it is, because the person is working normally. In the case of prophylactic isolation there is also no loss of retribution, i.e. labour rights are protected,"he saidYeah.
In the situation of occupational isolation, however, there is no entitlement to payment of the food allowance, since it is not legally considered to be remuneration.
"These plans are to be prepared, so that no one is caught unprepared, but it is not a note of panic or alarm, that is, just to be prepared, without any crisis or panic," the minister argued.
The Covid-19 outbreak, detected in December in China, which may cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, caused at least two.980 deaths and infected more than 87 thousand people, according to data reported by 60 countries. Of the infected people, more than 41 thousand have recovered.
In addition to the deaths of two.873 in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States of America and the Philippines. A Portuguese crewman of a cruise ship is hospitalized in Japan with confirmation of infection.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and increased the risk to "very high".
In Portugal, up to 19:00 on Sunday, the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) reported 85 suspected cases of infection, 12 of which were still under study.
The remaining 73 suspicious cases were not confirmed after negative tests. The DGS maintained on Saturday the risk of the public health epidemic in "moderate to high"