The Portuguese infected with the coronavirus (Covid-19) on a cruise ship in Japan was transferred this Tuesday to a hospital in Okazaki City, Aichi Province, told Lusa his wife, Emmanuelle Maranh o.
Adriano Maranh o's wife stated that she had just spoken with her husband, who was being transported by bus to Fujita University Health Hospital, a newly constructed hospital whose opening was scheduled for April.
"After the tests and analyses, which are based on the principle they will make, will refer you to another hospital," said Emmanuelle Maranh o, who was sending an e-mail to the Portuguese embassy in Japan asking for the accompaniment of her husband, crew member of the Diamond Princess cruise, where 700 cases were confirmed, who resulted in four deaths, with the last death to be announced this Tuesday by the Japanese authorities.
"I hope now that someone will go with these authorities and accompany him, I do not say that they will be by his side, obviously, because he will be in isolation, but someone has to be there representing the family, representing Portugal, representing this Portuguese, since the company also has a representative, But apparently I can't find him anywhere,"he said. In other words, he argued,'it is very important that the government does not leave its side at the moment'.
After all, he stressed, "the embassy must be there to help him... translating, realizing what's happening to him, what they're gonna do to him, what the results are... Because if they don't speak English or he doesn't understand, someone has to be there for him."
On Monday, the Director General of Health said that Portuguese, a plumber on the cruise ship docked at the Japanese port of Yokohama, would be sent to a local reference hospital early this morningYeah.
Grace Freitas explained that the crew member's symptoms of the cruise ship Diamond Princess indicated that the situation was not serious and expressed his "empathy and sympathy" towards the family of the Portuguese worker, whose wife has expressed, in statements to the media, complaints of lack of monitoring of the Husband.
The person responsible stated that there was initially suspicion of infection among eight Portuguese who were on the ship- three passengers and five crew members. Passengers did not report the disease and four crew members had negative results.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
As for Adriano Maranh o, a plumber at the Diamond Princess, didn't initially have symptoms, but the test turned out to be positive. The Covid-19 outbreak, which began in China at the end of the year, has already killed 2700 people and infected more than 80 thousand, according to the health authorities of about thirty countries affected.
In addition to 2663 dead in mainland China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, South Korea, Italy, Japan, Hong Kong, the Philippines, France and Taiwan. In Portugal, there have already been four suspicious cases, which have resulted negative after analysis, and a new case is being evaluated.
The World Health Organisation declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and warned on Monday of a possible pandemic, considering very worrying the sudden increase in cases in Italy, South Korea and Iran