The first analyses of the new type of coronavirus that is causing China to quarantine several cities to try to contain the infection are being published in scientific journals and reveal a virus similar to that of the SARS outbreak in 2003, which emerged in Guangdong, South China, although less aggressive, but effective in moving from person to person.
The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control considered "likely to reach Europe, and the first cases were discovered in France this Friday in the Paris and Bordeaux area.
In studies published in Lancet magazine, based on 41 patients where the infection was confirmed by laboratory tests, it has been confirmed that the 2019-nCoV virus causes SARS-like symptoms (severe acute respiratory syndrome in Portuguese) and passes from person to person. The authors stress that the number of people studied is still too small to draw definitive conclusions.
"It is difficult to understand the mortality rate associated with this new virus at the moment, because we are detecting the most serious cases in the early stages of the epidemic, not the most moderate or asymptomatic," said one of the team leaders, Lili Ren, of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, cited by the Guardian. But only two% of infected people died, said virologist Mark Stenglein, from the University of Colorado (USA), to "The Scientist".
However, despite similarities to SARS, the clinical picture caused by this virus, which belongs to a specific group called coronavirus, which causes diseases in mammals and birds, and respiratory diseases in humans, already appears to be some differenceYeah. "Symptoms do not include dripping nose, sneezing or sore throat or bowel problems and diarrhoea, which affected 25% of people who fell ill with SARS", explained the main author of this article by Lancet, Bin Cao, of the China-Japan Friendship Hospital, also cited by the British newspaper. But people infected with the current coronavirus experience fever, dry cough and shortness of breath, as do those who have fallen ill with the 2003 virus.
One crucial issue to be addressed is how contagious the 2019-nCoV virus is. To this end, it is necessary to determine how many people, on average, each infected person transmits the virus, a number known as R0 in epidemiology. An initial analysis by scientists from the University of Lancaster (United Kingdom), posted online and not yet undergoing peer review, points to that number being 3.8.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
If the number is greater than one, the epidemic grows; if it is smaller, that means it is on the downward curve. According to the World Health Organisation's consensus paper on SARS, the infection of 2003 has reached a figure between 2 and 4.
With a 3,8 R0, Jonathan Read's team calculates that 72% to 75% of viral transmissions must be avoided by control measures, such as those imposed in quarantine cities in China, so that cases of infection begin to decrease. "We estimate that only five,1% of infections in the city of Wuhan are identified, and that in January 21 a total of 11.341 people had been infected since the beginning of the year", they write