Public health devices in Portugal have been strengthened following the increase in cases of people infected with the new coronavirus, which so far is associated with the Chinese city Wuhan. Although the likelihood of Portugal receiving infected cases is low, the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) has decided to reinforce prevention measures. Possible suspicious cases that may arise will be referred to the hospitals of San Juan (adults and children), Porto, Curry Cabral and Dona Estefania, both in Lisbon.
At a press conference held this Wednesday night, Health Director Grace Freitas explained that the DGS met two days ago "a group of advisers who made the risk assessment in our country and decided to update some measures". We have done two or three things that I consider extremely important. We have reactivated previous mechanisms by providing SNS 24 with algorithms that allow people to be clarified or referred to so that they do not go to the health unit but call, and we have strengthened the medical care line operated by doctors that professionals can call if they have a suspicious case."
Grace Freitas pointed out that it is also done in conjunction with INEM, the body responsible for transporting any suspected or confirmed cases of illness, with the National Institute of Health Dr. Ricardo Jorge (Insa), responsible for laboratory analyses, with the hospitals "St John, which is the reference unit in the North in adults and paediatrics, and in Lisbon with the Curry Cabral hospitals for adults, and Dona Estefania for Pediatrics." There will also be an update on the technical guidance for professionals and on easy ways to communicate with the population about the disease.
The Director-General of Health has stated that there are no suspicious cases in Portugal and the likelihood of'is low'Yeah. "Through the contacts possible to try to understand whether or not we are highly likely to have people from that region, we do not have a positive response to that. The Chinese Embassy would have said if we had such a strong probability. Nothing makes believe in an important flow of people [from the city of Wuhan or from this province] to Portugal."
Grace Freitas pointed out that neither the medical line nor the SNS24 were contacted. Regarding the SNS contact centre, which is the line the population is calling to, Grace Freitas explained that a contact has been made with the High Commissioner for Migration, who has a translation service, including Mandarin, which will be activated if necessary.
"So far, we have no indication for tracing at airports," said the person responsible, noting that the World Health Organisation's recommendations are for tracing fever and other symptoms at the time of departure of the passenger. Nevertheless, Portugal has an international protocol for aircraft and ships, in which case the passenger develops symptoms the health authorities on the ground are activated.
Grace Freitas quoted the laboratory confirmed case numbers that the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (ECDC) gave this Wednesday morning, although admitting that the information may be out of date: "448 cases, seven of them had left China and have been identified in other countries. Of these, 441 cases are in China, spread across several provinces."All cases have direct or indirect links to the city of Wuhan.
There are many patients in and several in serious condition, said Grace Freitas, who confirmed 17 deaths caused by the new coronavirus. "Most deaths were in older people or with illness associated with various pathologies such as respiratory disease, diabetes and hypertension. The lethality rate of the virus is about threeYeah. In other words, in every hundred people, three will have died with new disease,"the Director-General of Health explained.
"It is a relatively high lethality for an infectious disease, but compared to the three most aggressive coronaviruses, severe acute respiratory syndrome [SARS] had a 10% lethality and Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome [MERS] about 35%. This [MERS] is highly lethal and serious, but reaches few people,"said the person responsible.
Subscribe free of charge to newsletters and receive the best of today and the deepest works of the public.
Grace Freitas explained that "there is a great need to confirm all reported cases" of infection of this new coronavirus, as at the same time other respiratory and influenza viruses circulate. "Many people are confirmed with flu or other viruses and so there is big difference in numbers. The numbers transmitted by official organisations are laboratory confirmed."
On the new coronavirus, "the source is not yet known." "We know that cases have a strong link to a market where live animals, fish, shellfish and also birds, were found. It may be that the disease transmits from animals to people, as it has happened in other cases,"says the expert. Regarding the issue of sustained transmission to person, Grace Freitas explained that it has even worsened; date there is no evidence that transmission is effective in generating large transmission chains. "When it passes from one to another with some difficulty through close contact, it is considered that it is not sustained," said, admitting that "there are reasons for more attention" with the increase of confirmed cases