SINGAPORE — From Monday (March 16), the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) will require all employers and employment agencies planning for their foreign domestic workers to enter Singapore to obtain the Ministry's approval before they commence their journey. 
 The need for MOM's entry approval extends to all work pass holders and their dependants with travel history to Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) countries, Japan, Switzerland or the United Kingdom within the last 14 days, regardless of the nationality of the work pass holder. 
 The new measures will take effect from 11.59pm on Monday. 
 FOREIGN DOMESTIC WORKERS 
 In addition to requiring entry approval from MOM, maids will also have to serve a mandatory 14-day stay-home notice upon their arrival. This will apply to all new and returning maids travelling to Singapore from any country. 
 “The new measures take into consideration that foreign domestic workers live with families and many look after young children and the elderly,” MOM said in a statement on Sunday. 
 New workers must serve their stay-home notice at alternative accommodations such as dormitories, hostels or hotels before they can be deployed, while returning workers can serve it at their employer's residential address or other accommodation. 
 Employers and employment agencies can apply for the entry approval online, said MOM. Applicants will have to provide proper housing and upkeep arrangements for their maids and ensure that they comply with the stay-home notice. They must also ensure that the maid has access to a local mobile phone and remains contactable by the ministry during the 14-day period. 
 The ministry added that it will provide an assistance package to support Singaporean or Permanent Resident employers affected by the new requirements. They can receive S$60 daily per affected worker and have their levy waived during the 14-day period.    
 Employers can apply for the package within 90 days of the foreign domestic worker completing the stay-home notice. To be eligible, the maid must not serve the stay-home notice at the employer's residential address. Additionally, if they have a valid work pass, they must have left Singapore on or before March 15. Otherwise, their work pass application must be submitted to MOM on or before March 15. 
 MOM added that foreign domestic workers should not make travel plans to Singapore before the ministry’s approval has been obtained. After approval has been given, the approval letter must be sent to the worker, who will need to show it to airline staff during check-in and to Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) officials upon arriving at the checkpoint in Singapore. 
 MOM warned that enforcement action — including the revocation of work passes and suspension of work pass privileges — will be taken if employers or employment agencies do not comply with the new requirements. Employment agencies who violate the requirements will also be given demerit points. 
 "Employment agencies, employers and their foreign domestic workers have a collective duty to ensure that the entry approval and the stay-home notice requirements are complied with," the Ministry said. 
 Additionally, MOM "strongly encouraged" maids to spend their rest days at home, in light of the social distancing measures that have been introduced in Singapore. 
 Workers who have errands to run on their rest day should do so on a weekday when public spaces are less crowded. Employers should also encourage their maids to avoid gathering in public places, MOM added. 
 Employers should also not assign work to their maids if they agree to spend their rest day at home. Alternatively, if a maid decides to forgo her rest day, her employer must provide compensation. 
 WORK PASS HOLDERS 
 The new entry approval requirement will apply to existing work pass holders currently out of Singapore and in-principle approval holders who have yet to enter the country, MOM said in a separate statement on Sunday. 
 The affected work pass holders must serve a mandatory 14-day stay-home notice upon arriving in Singapore and employers must declare to MOM that they have arranged for suitable premises to house their affected employees for the duration of the notice period. 
 Employers can apply for entry approval online and should inform their affected employees not to make travel plans until MOM approval has been received. 
 Similar to the case of foreign domestic workers, employers of the affected work pass holders must send the MOM approval letter to their employees, who will need to show it to airline staff upon check-in and at the ICA checkpoint in Singapore. 
 Those who do not comply with MOM's requirements could have their work pass revoked or work pass privileges withdrawn, the Ministry said. 
 Additionally, MOM has extended its leave of absence support programme to those serving stay-home notices due to Covid-19 since Feb 18, 11.59pm. 
 Under the programme, eligible employers can apply for S$100 daily per affected worker and a levy waiver for the duration of the stay-home notice. Affected workers include Singapore citizens, permanent residents and work pass holders who were placed on a stay-home notice upon their return to Singapore. 
 Businesses and self-employed Singaporeans and permanent residents will be eligible for the programme if work was not performed remotely by affected workers, and if they were placed on a leave of absence or stay-home notice upon their return to Singapore after: 
 Travelling to mainland China on or before Jan 31, or 
 Travelling to Daegu city or Cheongdo county in South Korea on or before Feb 26, or 
 Travelling to South Korea, Northern Italy, or Iran before March 4, or 
 Travelling to Italy, Spain, France or Germany on or before March 15, or 
 Traveling to Asean countries, Japan, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom on or before March 16 
 "As the Covid-19 situation continues to evolve, there may be additional requirements imposed on work pass holders from time to time," said MOM. Employers and employees are advised to check the MOM’s website at http://www.mom.gov.sg/covid-19 for the latest information. 
 