The head of Angolan diplomacy recognized this Monday that the "weakness" of the health sector forced it to quarantine citizens from countries with an outbreak of Covid-19, pointing Angola as a country of "risk".
The Angolan Foreign Minister, Manuel Augusto, said this Monday to the Lusa agency in Brasilia that his country's wide cooperation with China makes Angola a country at risk of being affected by the new coronavirus.
"In relation to a statement made two days ago by the Government of Angola about the need for quarantine for citizens coming from some sources, we are doing nothing more than following the guidelines of the World Health Organisation. In particular, Angola, for its broad cooperation with China, "Manuel Augusto, after meeting with his Brazilian counterpart, Ernesto Araujo, said a country at risk in this matter.
"We have a community of more than fifty thousand Chinese citizens working in Angola, in addition to the trade-fruit movement between the two countries. We are taking preventive measures because it will be much more difficult for Angola if the epidemic breaks out, it will be much more difficult to take remedial measures because we recognise the weakness of our health sector. Therefore, if we can, through preventive measures, avoid as much as possible the risk of infection, It will be better for all of us,"concluded the ruler.
Angola has decreed mandatory quarantine, which will take place from Tuesday, for all citizens who have been in countries with "indigenous cases" of the Covid-19 outbreak.
In another order by the Government of Angola, citizens from China, South Korea, Italy, Iran, Nigeria, Egypt and Algeria are banned from entering Angolan territory as of Tuesday, as long as the new coronavirus epidemic lasts, Lusa confirmed with the Ministry of HealthYeah.
A source from the Angolan Ministry of Health told Lusa that "the two documents are true and authentic", the press release being "addressed to the media" while the ministerial order aims to give guidance to the institutions and entities working at the main points of entry of the country.
The Ministry's order warns the carriers of the obligation to inform travellers, and they are responsible for "immediate repatriation" of travellers, with all the associated costs, if they fail to comply with the guidelines.
It has not yet been possible to clarify which citizens will be subject to quarantine and which will be prohibited from entering.
The Covid-19 outbreak, detected in December in China, which can cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, has caused more than three.000 deaths and has infected almost 90 thousand people in 67 countries, including two in Portugal.
From infected people, about 45 thousand recovered.
Only three cases of infection have been identified on the African continent, Egypt, Nigeria and Algeria.
In addition to the deaths of two.912 in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States of America and the Philippines.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and increased the risk to "very high".