Brooklyn Nets announced this Tuesday that four of their players had positive tests on the new Covid-19 coronavirus, increasing to seven the number of infected U.S. basketball players.
According to the Brooklyn set, which did not release names, one of the players showed symptoms, while the other three are asymptomatic.
The four basketball players have been placed in isolation and are under the supervision of the Nets'doctors.
The NBA team has also advanced that it has asked all players and other team members to remain in isolation and to closely monitor their health status.
The Brooklyn Nets held their last meeting in the NBA regular season in 10th of March in Los Angeles, where they beat the Lakers by 104-102.
Two days later, the New York set was supposed to play in the Golden State Warriors stronghold, but the game was suspended after French Rudy Gobert had a positive test, becoming the first NBA player contaminated by Covid-19.
Following the Indiana Pacers gaul post, his teammate Donovan Mitchell and Christian Wood of the Detroit Pistons had also charged the new coronavirus.
The coronavirus responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic infected more than 180 thousand people, more than 7.000 of whom died. From infected people around the world, over 75 thousand have recovered from the disease.
The outbreak began in China in December and spread over 145 countries and territories, which led the World Health Organization to declare a pandemic situation.
After China, which records most of the cases, Europe became the epicenter of the pandemic, with more 67 thousand infected and at least 2.684 dead, which led several countries to adopt exceptional measures, including the quarantine regime and the closure of borders.Yeah.
In Portugal there are 448 infected people, according to the latest daily report from the Directorate-General for Health more 117 than on Monday, the day on which the first death occurred in the country.
More information about the pandemic on the website dedicated to the coronavirus
Follow the last minute on the disease-map of the situation in Portugal and the World: see the evolution of the pandemic-Council on coronavirus in the tutor-Know myths you should ignore about the disease
If you have symptoms, call 808 24 24