A team of Chinese scientists has demonstrated that pangolins are carriers of coronavirus closely related to SARS-CoV-2, which causes the current pandemic, but not enough to conclude that they are directly responsible for transmitting the virus to humans.
SARS-CoV-2 emerged in a market in Wuhan (China) where wild animals were sold and, although there is evidence to suggest that bats are the reservoir of the syndrome, today scientists still do not know which animal may be the intermediate guest that facilitated the transmission of the virus to humans.
Today, a genomic study, led by Chinese virologists Yi Guan of the University of Hong Kong, and Yan-Ling Hu of the University of Medicine of Guangxi, published in Nature magazine, advances that Malaysian pangolins carry coronaviruses related to SARS-CoV-2.
The similarity between these coronaviruses and what caused the pandemic is not sufficient to confirm that the pangolins are the guests who transmitted the current outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 from bats to humans, but the findings suggest that these wild mammals are "a second guest of the coronavirus," Therefore, the sale on the wildlife markets should be strictly prohibited to prevent future transmissions, warns scientists.
In the study, they recall that shortly after the outbreak, the Wuhan market- the initial focus of the infection- was dismantled, which prevented gathering the animal species in which the coronavirus originated.
A possible guest could be the pangolim, the most trafficked mammal that is used as food and in traditional Chinese medicine.
For the job, Yi Guan and colleagues analyzed samples of 18 Malaysian pangolins seized in smuggling operations in southern China between August 2017 and January 2018, and all of them found different types of coronavirusYeah.
The virus from these samples bore a genetic similarity between 85% to 92% with SARS-CoV-2.
In addition, in one of these viruses, the region that facilitates cell entry is very similar to that of the current virus.
However, none of the pangolin coronavirus had the specific modification of human SARS-CoV-2, which raises doubts that pangolins are directly responsible for transmitting the coronavirus to humans.
Nevertheless, the authors of the study warn that pangolins should not sell themselves in markets and prop o se greater surveillance of these animals to understand their role in the emergence of coronavirus potential to infect humans.
The new coronavirus, responsible for the covid-19's pandemic, has already infected more 480.000 people around the world, of whom about 22.000 have died.
After appearing in China in December, the outbreak spread throughout the world, leading the World Health Organization (WHO) to declare a pandemic situation.
The European continent, with almost 260.000 infected, is the one where the largest number of cases are currently emerging. Italy is the country of the world with the most fatalities-- with 7.503 dead, in 74.386 cases recorded until Wednesday.
Spain is the second country with the highest number of deaths, registering four.089 between 56.188 cases of infection confirmed to this day.
China, other than Hong Kong and Macao, has 81.285 cases (more than 74.000 recovered) and records 3.287 deaths. In the last 24-hour hour hour, he has reported six deaths and 67 new cases, all of which originate abroad, when the country begins to return to normal after two months of paralysis.
In Portugal, there have been 60 deaths, more 17 than on Wednesday (+39,5%), and 3.544 confirmed infections, according to the assessment made today by Directorate-General for Health, which identified 549 new cases in relation to Wednesday (+18,3%).
Of the infected, 191 are institutionalized, 61 of which are in intensive care units, and there are 43 patients who have already recovered.