Over a thousand physicians responded positively to the appeal launched by the Covenant of Doctors, Miguel Guimar o s, to reinforce the response capacity of the National Health Service to combat the Covid-19 outbreak.
In a statement, the Medical Association points out that in just 24 hours, over a thousand doctors responded to the bastionist's appeal.
On Sunday, Miguel Guimarães called on all physicians to reinforce the response of public services to the new coronavirus, asking those outside the National Health Service to also help, including pensioners.
In a letter to all doctors, the bastionist appealed for the solidarity and humanist spirit of clinics, especially those who have left the National Health Service (SNS), recalling that the new coronavirus is already an added pressure on an SNS "a major disinvestment target" over the past few years.
"At this time when we are facing the outbreak of the new coronavirus (Covid-19), I write to you evoking our past and present, calling for your direct cooperation in this international public health challenge, considered by the World Health Organisation an emergency," underlined the bastionist.
In his letter, Miguel Guimar os stressed that the appeal "has special relevance to doctors who have already left the NHS, namely pensioners, but also to doctors who, while working in the NHS, can make an additional contribution if necessary".
In the appeal, Miguel Guimar os also said that the Order is in contact and putting pressure on the Directorate-General for Health and the Ministry of Health to "ensure that healthcare professionals have access to adequate protective equipment and in particular, personal protective equipment to protect themselves during contact with potential infected patients and patients"Yeah.
The bastionist recalled that each doctor will be able to contribute in their comfort area and know how, by freeing other, more specialized doctors, so that they can make their specific contribution in the area of Covid-19.
The Covid-19 epidemic was detected in December in China and has already caused more than four.200 deaths.
Portugal records 41 confirmed cases of infection according to Directorate-General for Health (DGS).
The DGS also reported that a total 375 suspected cases have been reached in Portugal since the outbreak of the epidemic, 83 of which are still awaiting laboratory results.
According to DGS, there are still 667 contacts in surveillance by the health authorities.
Because of the situation, the Portuguese Government decided to suspend all flights to or from the most affected areas in Italy, also recommending the suspension of events in open spaces with more than five.000 people.
In view of the increase in cases in Portugal, the Government has ordered the temporary suspension of visits to hospitals, homes and prison facilities in the northern region, so far the most affected.
Some teaching establishments, especially in the north of the country, as well as gyms, libraries, pools and cinemas, have also been closed down.
Residents of the Felgueiras and Lousada councils in the district of Porto were advised to avoid unnecessary travel.
In recent days, Italy has become the most serious case of an epidemic outside China, with 631 dead and more than 10.100 contaminated by the new coronavirus, which can cause respiratory infections such a s pneumonia.
The quarantine imposed by the Italian government to the north of the country was extended throughout Italy.