The Academic Week of Leiria, which was to take place between the days 19 and 21, was postponed today and announced the organisation of that student party.
According to the published statement, "taking into account the new guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health in relation to the preventive measures to be implemented on Covid-19", the organization stated that it was "forced to postpone the event until further defining date".
On this date, the academic parade and serenade were also planned, events that will also be delayed.
The organisation also states that tickets already purchased remain valid for when the Academic Leiria Week takes place.
The Covid-19 epidemic was detected in December in 2019, China, and has already caused more than four.000 deaths.
About 114 thousand people were infected in over a hundred countries, and over 63 thousand recovered.
In recent days, Italy has become the most serious case of an epidemic outside China, with 463 dead and more than nine.100 contaminated by the new coronavirus, which can cause respiratory infections such a s pneumonia.
The quarantine imposed by the Italian government in the north of the country was extended throughout Italy.
The Portuguese Government has decided to suspend all flights to or from the most affected areas in Italy, also recommending the suspension of events in open spaces with more than five.000 people.
On Monday, China had another drop in the number of new cases of infection, 19, face to 40 on the previous day, now adding a total of infected 80.754 and 3.136 killed in mainland China.
Portugal records 41 confirmed cases of infection according to Directorate-General for Health (DGS).
DGS also reported that a total 375 suspected cases have been reached in Portugal since the outbreak of the epidemic, 83 of which are still awaiting laboratory results.Yeah.
Due to the increase in cases, the Government has ordered the temporary suspension of visits to hospitals, homes and prison facilities in the northern region, so far the most affected.
Some teaching establishments have also been closed down, particularly in the north, as well as gyms, libraries, pools and cinemas.
Residents of the Felgueiras and Lousada councils in the district of Porto were advised to avoid unnecessary travel.