The authorities of St. Thomas and Prince are preparing to prohibit the entry of citizens from countries affected by the new coronavirus, the Health Minister announced this Wednesday, despite the fact that the World Health Organisation (WHO) disapproves of this measure.
"At the moment the WHO does not recommend that the country close the border or stop the movement of goods and persons," said the journalists the representative of the organization in St Thomas, Anne Ancia, at the end of a joint meeting with the ministers of Health, Edgar Neves, and Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and Communities, Elsa Pinto.
According to Anne Ancia, closing the border may not be the ideal solution to stop the spread of the disease.
"There are countries that have closed the borders", says the WHO representative, arguing that "closing the border temporarily with affected areas is intended to give time to increase their level of preparedness, but it is well known that closing the borders will not stop the transmission of the disease", the WHO representative argued.
Anne Ancia considered that "there are other far more important measures, such as increasing surveillance, preparing the health infrastructure to receive and isolate infected people who are much more effective in limiting the transmission of the disease".
The Health Minister, for his part, stressed that a ban on the entry into the country of citizens from countries affected by Covid-19 could soon be announced in a statement from the Council of Ministers.
Edgar Neves considered that "the epidemiological scenario will change at any time" in his country, ensuring that surveillance was increased, as well as the control system at the ports and airports of the country.
"The decision will come out in a statement from the Council of Ministers, there is a period in which people will organize themselvesYeah. This is not automatic, it is not from today to tomorrow, because it also involves the responsibility of the carriers, that is, of the airlines that must have time to organize themselves,"said the ruler.
Among the target countries are China, South Korea, Iran, Italy, Nigeria, Algeria and Senegal, which the executive is called upon to "change at any time".
Portugal, where six cases have already been registered and which is the main gateway into and out of Europe, is not listed as a possible restriction of the executive because of the coronavirus.
"The fact that there are confirmed cases has a link with the ability of control of the country itself", defended the ruler, who spoke at the end of a meeting with the diplomatic representatives accredited in the country and international organisations on government measures are-tomense to prevent Covid-19.
The Covid-19 outbreak, detected in December in China, which can cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, caused about three.200 deaths and infected over 94 thousand people in 78 countries, including five in Portugal.
Of the infected, about fifty thousand recovered.
In addition to the deaths of two.983 in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States of America and the Philippines.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and increased the risk to "very high".
MYB// JH
Lusa/purpose