The Cape Verdean Government has authorised the urgent purchase of medical equipment by 38,1 million shields (345 thousand euros) so that the health establishments are prepared to deal with possible cases of the new coronavirus.
The information is contained in a dispatch from the Prime Minister who entered into force in the 28th of February, consulted this Monday by Lusa, authorising the Ministry of Health and Social Security to pay for the contract of "health equipment" by means of direct adjustment under the Emergency Plan for Combating Epidemia Coronavirus, government approved.
"It is necessary to ensure that health establishments have, as a matter of urgency, all the equipment necessary for the prevention and treatment of the coronavirus epidemic, which may prove to be suspicious or confirmed," reads Ulysses Correia and Silva.
Specifically, the authorisation aims at the purchase of pulmonary ventilation apparatus, portable radiography apparatus, emergency car, beds and stretchers, thermometers, stethoscope and vital signal monitors, among other acquisitions.
The document recalls that, in view of the air links it maintains with the countries most affected by the coronavirus outbreak, and in view of the fact that it is "a highly communicable epidemic without specific antiviral treatment", it "increases the health risk for the possible introduction of this disease into the country".
The Covid-19 epidemic caused by a new coronavirus, which originated in China in December 2019, has already infected more than 86 thousand people in five-third countries, of which about three thousand died.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and increased the risk to "very high"Yeah.
"The idea is to delay as long as possible the arrival of the coronavirus in the country," the Prime Minister said on Friday about the emergency plan that was activated by the government.
"It is not possible to close the borders of the world. So, until control is effective, we must be prepared, without dramatising and creating opportunistic alarms to take advantage of situations that reach the totality of the world,"Ulysses Correia and Silva added.
Preventively, the Cape Verdean Government has already suspended, for a period of three weeks, until March 20, but which can be extended, all air links from Italy, the destination emitting 30.000 annual tourists to the archipelago.
Lusa has previously reported that the Cape Verdean Government has mobilised 700.000 euros to finance an emergency plan to deal with the new coronavirus in the face of exposure to countries facing the outbreak, although there has not yet been any case.
According to the resolution of the Council of Ministers 34/2020, published on February 25th, the Cape Verdean Government authorised the "transfer of funds between government departments" at the value of 76.852.814 shields (697 thousand euros) to finance the Coronavirus Emergency Plan for Combating Epidemia.
To this end, funds were cut in the various ministries, provided for in the State Budget for 2020, mainly under the "travel and stay" headings of members of the executive, and under this emergency plan were allocated 13.124.814 shields (119 thousand euros) for medical staff costs, 25.575.000 shields (233 thousand euros) for procurement of clinical goods and services, and 38.153.000 shields (345 thousand euros) for purchase of machinery and clinical equipment.
In China they study about 350 Cape Verdeans, 15 of which are quarantined in Wuhan, epicenter of the new coronavirus outbreak. In addition, thousands of Chinese currently work and live in the Cape Verde archipelagoYeah.
The emergency plan defines the need, by "country's health safety", to ensure "effective responses" during the various stages, which began with the "preparation and status of permanent alert", implementing the "early detection capability of the virus" and will proceed with "immediate containment to avoid the risk of spreading".