Fourteen Portuguese detained in Venezuela, due to the statement by the authorities of the preventive social quarantine for the new coronavirus, will be repatriated on a flight scheduled for Tuesday, advance diplomatic sources to Lusa today.
It is a flight by the airline Plus Ultra, organised by Spain, which will fly from Madrid to Caracas to repatriate European citizens, including Portuguese citizens.
Among the Portuguese to be repatriated is Geronimo Neves, native of Vila do Conde, who travelled to Caracas in March 11th and was scheduled to return to March 15th, the date when Venezuela had already suspended flights and closed the borders.
"We are six people, five family and a friend. We were seized here by a very sad, unfortunate situation,"Geronimo Neves said to Lusa, explaining that one of his children, who was on holiday in Venezuela, died by surprise and had to wait for family members to cremate him.
Geronimo Neves explained that they initially had the flight back to Portugal scheduled for the 15th of March in Iberia via Madrid, but it was cancelled and they had to buy new tickets to Air Europe, which also cancelled the flight.
"We've paid twice for the return, but I don't believe the companies will refund our money. Perhaps they will give us time to make the flight", he said, stressing that Portuguese citizens are not in a position to take on more financial expenses.
Geronimo Neves explained that he is diabetic and hypertensive and that he took medicines only for the four days of the trip, having difficulty getting locally what he needs.
These six Portuguese are in the city of Maracay (110 kilometres west of Caracas), the State of Arágua, and among them is a nurse and an on-board host who fear losing her jobs in PortugalYeah.
Luisa Neves, nurse, explained that they had obtained gasoline and a pass from local authorities to travel to Caracas, since the country is under quarantine, there is no movement between states of the country.
According to the same source, they have the necessary documentation for transporting their cousin's ashes and are waiting for the flight, scheduled for Tuesday, in the hope of not losing their job.
In Venezuela, where a large Portuguese community lives, there are 70 confirmed cases of patients infected with the new coronavirus.
The country has been on alert since March 13th, allowing the executive to enact "drastic decisions" to combat the pandemic.
The "alert state" was declared for thirty days, extended for the same period.
National and international flights are restricted in the country.
Since Monday, Venezuelans have been in quarantine and have been unable to move freely between the various states of Venezuela.
The new coronavirus, responsible for the pandemic of the dim-19, has already infected more than 271 thousand people around the world, of whom at least 12.000 have died.
After appearing in China in December, the outbreak spread throughout the world, leading the World Health Organization to declare a pandemic situation.
The continent of Europe is currently the largest number of cases emerging, with Italy being the country with the largest number of fatalities in the world, with four.825 dead (more 793 than Friday) in 53.578 cases (more 6.57, a 24-hour record). According to the Italian authorities, 6.062 of the infected are already cured.
The most affected countries after Italy and China are Iran, with 1.56 deaths in a total of 20.610 cases, Spain, with 1.236 deaths (24.926 cases), France, with 562 deaths (14.459 cases), and the United States, with 260 deaths (19.624 cases).
China, other than Hong Kong and Macao, where the epidemic broke out in late December, has a total of 81.008 cases, with records of three.255 deaths and 71.740 healed persons.
Several countries have adopted exceptional measures, including quarantine and border closure.