The transmission of the coronavirus causing the mother's covid-19 disease to the child is possible during pregnancy, albeit rare, suggests a new study of Chinese scientists this Thursday released.
The Chinese team followed 33 pregnant women in the city of Wuhan, where the SARS-CoV-2 corona virus was detected in December, and found that only three babies were born with covid-19.
The results of the study, published in the scientific publication JAMA Pediatrics, contradict conclusions from earlier work that indicated that the new coronavirus was non-transferable from mothers to children during pregnancy.
"Since the strict procedures for controlling and preventing infection have been adopted during childbirth, SARS-CoV-2 strains"detected"in the upper respiratory tract (including nose, pharynx, larynx and trachea) and in the anus of newborns are likely to be of maternal origin", refers to the scientists in the study released today.
The three babies, who recovered from their den-19, are all boys and were born by caesarean section, as mothers had pneumonia due to coronavirus.
One of the babies was born premature at 31 weeks into pregnancy and had to be resuscitated. She suffered from pneumonia, sepsis and respiratory distress.
The newborn was cured of the dim-19 by intensive care treatments, which included ventilation, antibiotics and caffeine. After seven days, the tests came back negative.
The other two babies had a fever, one of which also had pneumonia. Both were in intensive care and the tests came back negative after six days of life.
Chinese experts had already reported a case of transmission from the mother's den-19 to the child during pregnancy, after the baby had charged the presence of the new coronavirus thirty hours after birth.Yeah.
"It is crucial to test all pregnant women and to apply strict measures of infection control, quarantine of pregnant women and surveillance of newborns", advocates the new study published today.
In Portugal, pregnant women and newborns appear second in the chain of priority persons to perform screening tests for covid-19 in case of symptoms, according to a standard of Directorate-General for Health (DGS) that has com e into force today for the mitigation phase of the pandemic, the third and most serious response to the disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, resulting in respiratory infections such a s pneumonia?????
The priority chain of tests for covid-19 will only be followed when it is not possible to assess all persons suspected of infection, i.e. with symptoms such as fever, persistent or aggravated cough and difficulty breathing.
Portugal, in a state of emergency until April 02, is experiencing 60 deaths and 3.544 infection by covid-19, according to the balance sheet made today by the DGS.
Of infected people, 191 are admitted, 61 of which in intensive hospital care units, and 43 patients have been recovered since the infection was confirmed in the country on March 2nd.