The easyJet airline announced new cancellations this Monday as a result of the restrictions imposed by governments due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the reduction in travel demand, but without specifying which flights were affected.
In a statement, the company explains that "this position reflects the strategy of the company that may imply, at the limit, non-use of the majority of the easyJet fleet".
However, the company ensures that it will continue to make return flights so that citizens can return to their countries.
"To help mitigate the impact of COVID-19, all measures are being taken to reduce costs and expenses not vital to the business. Failure to use aircraft will significantly lower variable costs", is mentioned in the note.
However, easyJet argues that from a financial point of view it has a positive balance of more than one,7 billion euro.
"easyJet has no debt refinancing until 2022 and financiers recognize the robustness of their business model", according to the aviation company.
In the note, CEO Johan Lundgren stresses that the company "is doing everything in its power to meet the challenges of COVID-19".
"We continue to operate rescue and repatriation flights where we can to get everyone home so they can be with family and friends in these difficult times," he says.
The new Covid-19 pandemic coronavirus was detected in December in China and has already caused more than six.400 deaths around the world.
The number of infected rounds the 164 thousand people, with cases registered in at least 141 countries and territories, including Portugal, which has 245 confirmed cases. Of the total infected, over 75 thousand have recoveredYeah.
The epicenter of the pandemic caused by the new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) shifted from China to Europe, where the second most serious case is located, that of Italy, which announced on Sunday 368 further deaths and is registered with 1.809 fatalities.
Due to the advance of the pandemic, several countries have adopted exceptional measures, including the quarantine regime initially decreed by China in the outbreak zone.