The Golden Institute of Educational Science (ISCE) in Penafiel decided to suspend face-to-face classes for two weeks as part of the preventive measures for the new coronavirus was announced this Tuesday.
The statement states that the decision derives from the "guidelines of the General Health Directorate (DGS) and to act preventatively with regard to the welfare of its students.
In that private higher education establishment they study about 250 students.
The measure will last until the 23rd of March, and until that date, ISCE Douro, "taking advantage of its installed technological capacity, will only teach long distance classes as well as the respective tutorials".
The statement notes that there is no "knowledge of any contamination within the academic community of ISCE Douro with Covid-19", but it is recalled that "the spread has had a special impact on the region of Tamega and Sousa [Lousada and Felgueiras]".
"This measure is primarily aimed at ensuring the safety of the entire academic community of ISCE Douro and has immediate effects", concludes the Institute on the information note.
The Covid-19 epidemic was detected in December in China and has already caused more than four.000 deaths.
About 114 thousand people were infected in over a hundred countries, and over 63 thousand recovered.
In recent days, Italy has become the most serious case of an epidemic outside China, with 463 dead and more than nine.100 contaminated by the new coronavirus, which can cause respiratory infections such a s pneumonia.
The quarantine imposed by the Italian government to the north of the country was extended today to the whole of Italy.
Portugal registers 39 confirmed cases of infection according to Directorate-General for Health (DGS).
DGS also reported that a total 339 suspected cases have been hit in Portugal since the outbreak, 67 of which are still awaiting laboratory resultsYeah.
Due to the increase in cases, the Government has ordered the temporary suspension of visits to hospitals, homes and prisons in the Northern region.
Some teaching establishments, particularly in the north of the country, as well as gyms, libraries, pools and cinemas, have also been closed down.
Residents of the Felgueiras and Lousada Councils in the district of Porto were advised to avoid unnecessary travel.
APM // JAP
Lusa/purpose