New York City hospitals in the United States (USA) are in preparation to use the blood of people who recovered from the covid-19 as a possible antidote to the new coronavirus, according to Nature magazine.
New York researchers hope that the centennial approach of using in patients the antibody-laden blood of those who survived an infection will help the city which is now the epicenter of the outbreak in the US to avoid the fate of Italy, where intensive care units are so full that doctors do not have Breath fans for everyone who needs them.
This attempt follows studies already done in China, where the same measure has been attempted, but with plasma the fraction of the blood containing antibodies, rather than red blood cells from the people who recovered from the covid-19.
As yet, there are only preliminary results from the Chinese experience, and it should be noted that during previous outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Ebola, the approach by injecting the recovered plasma was modest success.
But American scientists hope to increase the success rate of treatment by using donor blood, which is full of antibodies, in patients who are most likely to recover.
New York is the epicenter of the new coronavirus crisis in the United States, with numbers of cases and fatalities following the progression in cities such as Madrid and Milan.
New York governor Andrew Cuomo said the number of hospitalized people in the state rose today to 3.800, with about 900 people in intensive care.
Who said that 140 thousand hospital beds may be required in a system that only has 53 thousand, and that the 285 deaths already recorded should increase substantially in the coming daysYeah.
Furthermore, the New York health authorities set up an impromptu morgue at the same site used during the terrorist attacks of 11-September 2001 to welcome the victims of the covid-19 pandemic.
Only in New York City have there been 210 deaths and Cuomo expects a significant increase before being reached the turning point of the pandemic growth curve.
The new coronavirus, responsible for the pandemic of the dim-19, has already infected nearly 428 thousand people around the world, of whom more than 19.000 have died.
After appearing in China in December, the outbreak spread throughout the world, leading the World Health Organization (WHO) to declare a pandemic situation, whose epicenter is now Europe.