The Cape Verdean Government announced this Friday that the first and only suspected case of infection with the new coronavirus on Cape Verdean island of San Vicente was negative, after reviews by the Ricardo Jorge Institute in Portugal.
The announcement was made by the government on its official Facebook page, less than an hour before the country's health minister, Arlindo of the Rosary, held a press conference in the city of Praia for further explanations of the case.
On Thursday night, the minister announced on his personal social media page that the case was negative.
"Regarding the suspicious case for the coronavirus and which fortunately, after the test was carried out, was not confirmed", wrote the ruler.
Analysis of the suspicious case was carried out in Portugal, but the National Director of Health in Cape Verde, Artur Correia, said this week that the country is installing equipment and will be able "in the next few days" to perform these screening tests for Covid-19, an epidemic caused by a new coronavirus.
The suspect case of the new coronavirus on the island of San Vicente is a Cape Verdean citizen presumably the writer Germano de Almeida, who was at an event in Portugal with a case of Covid-19 confirmed, the Minister of Health at Cape Verde said on Monday.
At the time, the minister did not provide further details or identify the person in question, who was admitted, but is already at home.
On Thursday, the writer told Lusa that a week ago there is a voluntary quarantine in Mindelo, but he assured her it was "great" and even plans to write about Covid-19.
The writer's son, Nuno Almeida, however, announced on his official Facebook page that analysis confirmed "officially" that the new coronavirus test was negative for the father.Yeah.
Cape Verdean 74-year-old writer returned to Mindelo on Saturday, after participating in the literary festival Chains d'Writers, held from 15th to 23 in February at the Varzim Dust, where Chilean writer Luis Sepulveda, however diagnosed in Spain with Covid-19, an epidemic caused by the new coronavirus.
The new coronavirus has already reached seven African countries: Algeria, Senegal, Egypt, Nigeria, Morocco, Tunisia and South Africa.
This Covid-19 outbreak, detected in December in China, which can cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, has caused about three.300 deaths and has infected more than 95 thousand people in 79 countries, including nine in Portugal.
From infected people, more than fifty thousand have recovered.
In addition to three.012 killed in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States of America and the Philippines, San Marino, Iraq, Switzerland and Spain.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and increased the risk to "very high".