Egyptian authorities announced this Friday that they detected 12 positive cases of infection with the new coronavirus among crew members aboard a cruise ship on the Nile River in southern Egypt.
In a statement, the Ministry of Health explained that the 12 cases were detected in Egyptian officials of a cruise ship travelling between Subject and Luxor, two tourist sites in Upper Egypt, "without symptoms" of the disease.
Authorities were alerted after a Taiwanese tourist "born in the USA" who travelled on the cruise was considered the cause of the spread of the disease, according to the joint note with the World Health Organisation (WHO).
The WHO has indicated to the authorities that the tests have revealed that this tourist is "the main case that has infected other people", adds the statement without giving further details.
The 12 Egyptian officials suspected of being infected were quarantined and tested positive for screening of Covid-19 after two weeks of isolation.
According to the statement, other tourists who came into contact with the infected tourist were also quarantined.
Egypt had already confirmed three cases of the new coronavirus including one Chinese who, however, has already recovered by raising the number of confirmed cases in the country to 15.
The Covid-19 outbreak, detected in December in China, which may cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, caused three.385 deaths and infected over 98 thousand people in 87 countries and territories, including 13 in Portugal.
From infected people, more than five thousand recovered.
In addition to three.042 deaths in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States of America and the Philippines, San Marino, Iraq, Switzerland, Spain, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands.Yeah.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and increased the risk to "very high".