National Defence Day, which involved six.714 young people in the next two weeks, was cancelled this Monday at least until March 23, due to the outbreak of Covid-19, announced the government this Monday.
The Ministry of National Defence has informed, in a statement, that "taking into account the guidance of national and international health authorities and the measures foreseen in the contingency plan", and given the "risk of infection of the new coronavirus" it has been "decided to immediately suspend National Defence Day, at least for 14 days".
The executive adds that after the date of 23 March "the need to prolong the interruption of the National Defence Day" will be reassessed and that the realization of "other public events [of the Armed Forces] with a high number of participants will always be evaluated according to the epidemical evolution".
In the next two weeks, National Defence Day would involve, on several dates, six.714 young people, "it would involve a high number of youth and advisory teams in military units of the three branches of the Armed Forces", which led the executive to adopt "this preventive measure of protection, up to March 23".
In total, more than six.700 young people were to participate in this activity, called up by the Porto, Vila Nova de Gaia, Braga, Almada (Alfeit), Lisbon and Funchal, and several parishes in the municipalities of Valongo, Vila Nova de Gaia, Famine, Guimaros, Setubal, Lisbon, Loures and, in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, the municipalities of Madeira Funchal and Santa Cruz.
The Ministry of Defence also informed that requests for clarifications can be made for an e-mail created for this purpose (ddn.COVID19@Defense.pt) or via the telephone line of the Single Defence Balkan (+351 213 804 200).
Portugal registers 31confirmed cases of infection, according to the most recent health Directorate General (DGS), published on SundayYeah.
All infected, 18 men and 12 women, are hospitalized.
The DGS also reported that 447 people are under surveillance for contact with infected people.
The Covid-19 epidemic was detected in December in China and has already caused more than three.800 deaths.
About 110 thousand people were infected in over a hundred countries, and over 62 thousand recovered.
In recent days, Italy has become the most serious case of an epidemic outside China, with 366 dead and more than 7.300 contaminated by the new coronavirus, which can cause respiratory infections such a s pneumonia.