The European Commission this Friday assured it'to do everything it can'to overcome the outbreak of the new coronavirus'as soon as possible', noting that this is a'fundamental moment' for the countries of the European Union (EU) to take action.
"I would like to take this opportunity to send my condolences to all those who have been affected by this recent outbreak and to ensure that we are doing everything possible, a s the European Commission and with the Member States, to overcome it as quickly as possible," said the European Health Commissioner, Stella Kyriakides...
In statements to the press at the entrance for a meeting of EU health ministers on the outbreak in Brussels, the responsible party noted that'today's Council is held at a crucial moment as regards efforts to meet Covid-19's challenge'.
"Let us look at the preparation of the Member States, their needs, but also at the need to show solidarity at this time," concluded Stella Kyriakides.
The EU Health Ministers are holding an extraordinary new meeting in Brussels today, the second in less than a month, to discuss coordinated measures to respond to the Covid-19 outbreak, which continues to spread in Europe.
This meeting, at which Portugal will be represented by Health Minister Marta Temido, takes place about three weeks after an extraordinary first Health Council, held in 13th February in Brussels, to discuss strengthening coordination between Member States in efforts to contain the spread of the new coronavirus, which has intensified in the meantime, leading to increased risk assessment in the EU to "moderate to high".
The Covid-19 outbreak, which may cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, caused more than three.450 deaths and infected more than 97 thousand people in at least 86 countries, including nine in PortugalYeah.
By midnight on Friday (16:00 hours on Thursday in Lisbon), mainland China, which excludes Macao and Hong Kong, added in total three.042 deaths and 80.552 cases of infection, over 80% of the global set worldwide, despite recent outbreaks in Italy, Iran, South Korea and Japan.
China reported that more than 53.700 people have been discharged in the country since the outbreak began.
In addition to the three.042 deaths in mainland China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States, the Philippines, Spain, the United Kingdom and Iraq.