Mr Ventura, the sole member of Arrival, announced that he will be delivering this Wednesday a draft constitutional review to amend Article 27 of the Basic Law to allow "compulsory admission" in cases such as the crisis in Covid-19.
"There are several elements that we want to change in the Constitution, but as we are in the midst of the coronavirus crisis in Portugal, Arrival will present a project today to amend Article 27 of the Constitution to allow compulsory admission, when there is a binding opinion from the Directorate General for Health (DGS) and a threat to the Constitution. "public and imminent health," said Andr e Ventura in statements to journalists in parliament.
In its Article 27, the Constitution currently allows "the admission of a person with a psychic abnormality into an appropriate therapeutic establishment, decreed or confirmed by the competent judicial authority".
According to the Constitution,'submitted a draft constitutional review, any others will have to be submitted within thirty days'and amendments to the Basic Law must be approved by a two-thirds majority.
Mr Ventura explained that during this month he will be tabling the remaining amendments he intends to make to the Basic Law, which are primarily about justice matters, and he hopes that other parties will also submit their initiatives for constitutional review.
In the area of Justice, Ventura has detailed that the amendments it intends to present will make it possible to make constitutional the Arrival Bill on Chemical castration for sexual offenders of minors who have not been to plenary because it is considered contrary to the Basic Law. as well as a future initiative for life imprisonment for certain types of homicides and sexual assault, announced on Saturday when he submitted his candidacy for President of the RepublicYeah.
"I believe that we will have strong opposition in these matters, so, in order not to confuse the plans, we first present this project on compulsory internment where there seems to be a certain consensus", she said.
Mr Ventura said that he would "begin talks with PSD and CDS today with a view to consensus on Article 27 and said until he hoped that the PS would also agree, invoking statements by Mrs Marta Temido that the current legal framework might"merit reflection".
The sole member of the Arrival also expressed the intention today in the fortnight debate to ask the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, for the resignation of the Director General for Health, Grace Freitas, considering that he "devalued" the first news about the new coronavirus and then to speak of "scenarios for a million infected".
"Every time you say the scenario gets worse," he pointed out.
The Covid-19 outbreak, detected in December in China, which can cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, caused about three.200 deaths and infected over a thousand people in 78 countries, including five in Portugal.
Of the infected, about fifty thousand recovered.
In addition to the deaths of two.983 in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States of America and the Philippines.
In Portugal, the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) confirmed five cases of infection, of which four in Porto and one in Lisbon.