The test carried out this Monday to the President of the Republic on the new coronavirus was negative, a note published on the official Presidency page.
"The results of the test conducted earlier this afternoon to the President of the Republic were negative. Although he continues to have no viral symptoms, the President of the Republic will continue to work at home until the two weeks referred to in the note published yesterday are extended", the note reads.
According to images taken by the SCI, just before the test result was put on the Presidency's page, it was the smiling head of state himself who passed the news, from the terrace of his residence in Cascais and some distance away, to some journalists on the spot.
"The note is now being placed, the result is negative, I will continue working here in any case until next week until the 15-day meeting is completed", he said.
Questioned about how he has been busy with time, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa mentioned that he was "working on the state budget, among other things".
On Sunday, official source of the President of the Republic explained that, despite Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa of 71 years, not showing symptoms of Covid-19 disease would carry out the test as a preventive measure.
Hours before the information about the test, the Republic presidency announced that Marcellus Rebelo de Sousa suspended the agenda for two weeks and will remain at home under monitoring, "although it shows no symptoms" of infection with the new coronavirus.
The decision was taken after Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa was at the Palace of Bethlehem in Lisbon on Tuesday, with a class from a Felgueiras school (Porto), which was closed due to the admission of a studentYeah.
"Given what is known today and not known on Tuesday, having listened to the health authorities, the President of the Republic, despite not showing any viral symptoms, decided to cancel all public activity, which included several presence with a large number of Portuguese, as well as his own trip to Bethlehem, for the next two weeks. It will do the same with planned travel abroad", read in the note issued by Bethlehem on Sunday.
According to the note, "neither the admitted student nor his class were in Bethlehem."
During this time, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa "will be monitored at home".
Portugal records 30 confirmed cases of infection, according to the most recent Health Directorate (DGS) newsletter published on Sunday.
All infected, 18 men and 12 women, are hospitalized.
The DGS also reported that 447 people are under surveillance for contact with infected people.
The Covid-19 epidemic was detected in December in China and has already caused more than three.800 deaths.
About 110 thousand people were infected in over a hundred countries, and over 62 thousand recovered.
In recent days, Italy has become the most serious case of an epidemic outside China, with 366 dead and more than 7.300 contaminated by the new coronavirus, which can cause respiratory infections such a s pneumonia.