The Superior School of Technology and Management (ESTG) of the Port Policeman closed this Monday indefinitely "all premises where classes are taking" in the Felgueiras and Lousada centre, but also in Amarante and Penafiel, Porto district.
"These measures condition the activity of about 1.800 persons, between students, teaching staff and non-teaching staff, with the interruption of the 21-course school activity", adds the institution, in communique.
ESTG clarifies that the closure "of all the places where school activities exist" was considered "prudent" after the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) announced the closure of all the basic, preparatory and secondary schools in Felgueiras and Lousada.
Closed locations include "Campus 3 of Port Polytechnic in the Felgueiras Centre" and the facilities of the Superior Vocational Technical Courses located in the cities of Amarante, Felgueiras, Lousada and Penafiel.
Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, in Felgueiras and Lousada gyms, libraries, pools and cinemas were closed, as well as all schools.
Residents in those two municipalities of the district of Porto were advised to avoid unnecessary travel.
Portugal records 31confirmed cases of infection, the most recent confirmed this morning.
All infected, 18 men and 12 women, are hospitalized.
The DGS also reported that 447 people are under surveillance for contact with infected people.
Due to the increase in cases, the Government has ordered the temporary suspension of visits to hospitals, homes and prisons in the Northern region.
Some secondary and university schools in the north, as well as two schools in Amadora and one in Portimam, were also closed.
The Covid-19 epidemic was detected in December in China and has already caused more than three.800 deaths.Yeah.
About 110 thousand people were infected in over a hundred countries, and over 62 thousand recovered.
In recent days, Italy has become the most serious case of an epidemic outside China, with 366 dead and more than 7.300 contaminated by the new coronavirus, which can cause respiratory infections such a s pneumonia.
To try to stop the epidemic, the government of Rome has quarantined around 16 million people in the north of the country, affecting cities such as Milan, Venice or Parma.