The Ricardo Jorge Institute in Portugal will be conducting in the next few hours analyses of the suspected case of a new coronavirus in research on Cape Verde island of San Vicente, Lusa told the National Director of Health of Cape Verde.
According to Artur Correia, the samples taken from the suspect patient, who arrived in Cape Verde on Saturday from Portugal, are still continuing this Tuesday to be analysed in the Portuguese reference laboratory.
"If all goes smoothly, we expect to have an answer tomorrow [Wednesday]", explained the National Health Director of Cape Verde, Artur Correia, emphasising that this is the first and only suspect case of the new coronavirus so far in the country.
The person responsible added that Cape Verde will be able "in the next few days" to perform these screening tests for Covid-19, an epidemic caused by a new coronavirus.
"We're installing the equipment. They will be made at the Virology Laboratory of the National Institute of Public Health, here in Cape Verde", explained Artur Correia.
The suspect case of the new coronavirus under investigation on the island of San Vicente is a Cape Verdean citizen presumably the German writer of Almeida, who was at an event in Portugal with a case of Covid-19 confirmed, said the Minister of Health at Cape Verde on Monday.
The announcement was made by the ruler, Arlindo of the Rosary, in a statement to the press earlier this evening at Dr Baptista de Sousa Hospital in Mindelo, St. Vincent Island, but without giving further details or identifying the person in question, who is already committed and "stable" in that hospital unit.
The Minister of Health said only that the case fits the requirements to be analysed and lost as such and that the person concerned was recently in Portugal, "at an event with a case" of the new "confirmed" coronavirusYeah.
This announcement came shortly after Cape Verdean writer Germano de Almeida confirmed to the local media that, due to his participation in a literary festival in Portugal together with Chilean writer Luis Sepulveda, diagnosed with the new coronavirus, he began a forty-year period of voluntary form.
The 74-year-old Cape Verdean author, 2018 winner of the Cameroon Prize, returned to Mindelo on Saturday, after participating in the literary festival Chain of Scriptures, held from 15 to 23 of February at the Varzim Dust.
Without naming names, the Minister of Health just said that the person is "already in hospital" and has meanwhile been subjected to "a battery of tests".
"Let us await the evolution," said the Minister of Health, in a statement entitled to no questions and merely ensuring that the priority of the Government of Cape Verde is the detection of suspicious cases.
"Containment and response," added Arlindo of the Rosary.
The Covid-19 outbreak, detected in December in China, which can cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, has caused more than three.000 deaths and has infected almost 90 thousand people in 67 countries.
From infected people, about 45 thousand recovered.
In addition to the deaths of two.912 in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States of America and the Philippines.
"The idea is to delay as long as possible the arrival of the coronavirus in the country," the Prime Minister said on Friday about the emergency plan that was activated by the government at the value of 700.000 euros to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic.
"It is not possible to close the borders of the world. So, until control is effective, we must be prepared, without dramatising and creating opportunistic alarms to take advantage of situations that reach the totality of the world,"Ulysses Correia and Silva added.Yeah.
Preventively, the Cape Verdean Government has already suspended, for a period of three weeks, until March 20, but which can be extended, all air links from Italy, the destination emitting 30.000 annual tourists to the archipelago.