The coronavirus has already infected tens of thousands of people and continues to spread throughout the world. This Thursday the WHO has already stated that Europe is the new epicenter of the virus while in China the numbers are gradually falling.
But three months after the virus appeared, little is known about it.
The outbreak first appeared in Wuhan, China, and was reported in late December 2019. It quickly spread to America and Europe and is now more than a hundred countries that are tending to spread further.
Recent studies already known to some have revealed that infected people can transmit the coronavirus to other individuals before they even have symptoms, and symptoms only appear five days after infection with signs such as high fever or dry cough.
This virus destroys the human body by placing elderly people and patients with pre-existing health conditions at risk of death. Experts believe it can live within the airway for at least five weeks.
And what does this virus do to our bodies? Coronosphere infects tissues and airways inside the lungs. Symptoms resemble flu or constipation and include fever, dry cough, fatigue and shortness of breath.
Some people still suffer from muscle pain.
The disease may develop into pneumonia- a lung infection- and cause severe lung damage or organ failure in severe cases.
In the most serious cases, a patient may develop acute respiratory distress syndrome and die.
Computed tomography of the lungs of coronavirus patients shows white spots indicative of fluid in them.
These white spot patterns are similar to those found in patients who contracted SARS or MERSYeah.
However, and despite the fear installed, according to the World Health Organisation, about 80% of patients infected with coronavirus end up recovering without the need for specialised treatment, not least because, so far, there is no treatment or vaccine for this virus.
And after recovery?
Physicians cited by the Mirror British newspaper believe that the recovered patients may suffer from a reduction in lung function in about thirty% being limited in the activities they did before infection. However, these are still data being studied.
If you have symptoms It is important that you contact SNS 24-Line which has already been strengthened by DGS and is free at this stage -and do not go to any health centre or hospital without prior indication.
For further information on the subject: The development of the coronavirus in Portugal may be accompanied By The Minute in the Morning Mail. We also indicate the precautions to be taken to avoid the disease in an explanator based on the information from the Directorate-General for Health.
If you have travelled to areas with incidence of Covid-19, you should also know the care you should take into account.