This Wednesday the Moroccan authorities called for vigilance against the multiplication of fake news about the new coronavirus epidemic, with a record of at least three arrests in recent days.
"Some accounts on social networks and instant messaging applications (...) published false and erroneous information attributed to official institutions" to announce preventive health measures, according to a statement released today by the Moroccan Ministry of Interior.
On Tuesday, the Ministry of Education vehemently denounced "a manipulated photo" circulated on social media to announce the closure of all the schools in the country starting today.
On the same day, the L'Economiste newspaper debunked "false information" which circulated with its official social media log o about a "new focus" in a suburb of Casablanca.
"All legal measures will be taken to identify the persons involved in the publication of these allegations and lies", he warned the Ministry of the Interior in a statement.
Two people who recorded fraudulent videos on the street announcing that they had been contaminated by the new coronavirus abroad to observe the reactions of those who were passing by were arrested in Marrakech (Centre), according to a message published on Tuesday on the national security social network Twitter (DGSN).
Last week, DGSN had already announced the arrest of a North Tetuon resident, indicating in a video "recording deaths linked to the virus".
On Monday, Morocco announced the first positive case of infection with the new coronavirus in the country, a Moroccan citizen returning from Italy and being isolated in a hospital in Casablanca.
The Covid-19 outbreak, detected in December in China, which can cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, caused about three.200 killed and infected over a thousand people in 78 countries, including five in Portugal.
Of the infected, about fifty thousand recovered.
In addition to the deaths of two.983 in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States of America, the Philippines and Iraq.
In Portugal, the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) confirmed five cases of infection, of which four in Porto and one in Lisbon.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and increased the risk to "very high".