The Cedofeita, Saint Ildefonso, See, Miragaia, Saint Nicholas and Victoria Freight Union, which covers the historic and'moved'area of Porto, has today closed all its services until Thursday as a'proactive measure of prevention'.
In a statement to Lusa, the President of Junta, Antonio Fonseca, explained that his executive has opted for the closure of the services, in particular the relief centres, bathrooms, sanitaries, laundry rooms and administration, because it is "an area that welcomes many tourists, people of many nationalities".
"The staff are very exposed, but so are all the people who turn to our services. So far there are no signs of any deterioration of the situation", the municipality said.
Antonio Fonseca stressed that "the total closure of services is a pro-active measure that has been very well thought out, with the agreement of doctors cooperating with the junta".
"We know closure costs, but we understand that people come first. In our case we believe that, because we are a public entity in a risk zone, we should set an example,"he added.
According to Antonio Fonseca, "the ATL (leisure workshops) will be kept open as long as the management of the school group so wishes".
On Thursday, "the measure will be re-evaluated for, according to the evolving situation and guidelines of the Directorate General for Health, whether or not to decide to maintain the closure", he said.
The Covid-19 epidemic was detected in December in China and has already caused more than three.800 deaths.
About 110 thousand people were infected in over a hundred countries, and over 62 thousand recovered.
In recent days, Italy has become the most serious case of an epidemic outside China, with 366 dead and more than 7.300 contaminated by the new coronavirus, which can cause respiratory infections such a s pneumonia.Yeah.
To try to stop the epidemic, the government of Rome has quarantined around 16 million people in the north of the country, affecting cities such as Milan, Venice or Parma.
Portugal records 30 confirmed cases of infection, according to the most recent Health Directorate (DGS) newsletter published on Sunday.
All infected, 18 men and 12 women, are hospitalized.
The DGS also reported that 447 people are under surveillance for contact with infected people.
Due to the increase in cases, the Government has ordered the temporary suspension of visits to hospitals, homes and prisons in the Northern region.
Some secondary and university schools in the north, as well as two schools in Amadora and one in Portimam, were also closed.
On Felgueiras and Lousada, gyms, libraries, pools and cinemas were closed, as well as all schools.
Residents in those two municipalities of the district of Porto were advised to avoid unnecessary travel.
The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, began a two-week isolation period at home on Sunday after being with students from a Felgueiras school where an infection case was detected.
Although he has no symptoms of the disease, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, 71, is auditioning Covid-19 today.