The European institutions already have two cases of infection with the new coronavirus, with the revelation of a second positive analysis, this time to a Council official, indicating various European sources.
A few hours after the European Defence Agency (ADE) announced this Wednesday a first confirmed case of infection by Covid-19 among its staff, stating that he is an official who recently went on a work mission to Italy, Council sources indicated that he too was an official, who works in security services, tested positive, and is, like the first, recovering at home.
Still without any official announcement from the Council, the source of this institution representing the 27 Member States said that the transmission would have been local, and the French news agency AFP said that the two positive cases would be related.
This Wednesday morning, ADE confirmed the first case of infection with the new coronavirus hitting the European institutions based in Brussels, reporting a positive analysis to an official who returned from Italy in 23 February last, via Milan and Cortina, and who is currently in self-isolation in home.
Following this case, the agency decided to cancel all meetings scheduled for its premises by March 13th, as well as all missions of officials to external meetings to the same date.
The Council, for the time being, is still functioning normally, and moreover welcomes this Wednesday evening an extraordinary meeting of EU interior ministers to discuss the migration crisis on the Greek border with Turkey.
The Covid-19 outbreak, detected in December in China, which can cause respiratory infections such as pneumonia, caused about three.200 killed and infected over a thousand people in 78 countries, including five in Portugal.
Of the infected, about fifty thousand recovered.
In addition to the deaths of two.983 in China, there are reports of fatalities in Iran, Italy, South Korea, Japan, France, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, the United States of America and the Philippines.
A Portuguese crewman of a cruise ship is hospitalized in Japan for confirmation of infection.
In Portugal, the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) confirmed five cases of infection, of which four in Porto and one in Lisbon.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the Covid-19 outbreak an international public health emergency and increased the risk to "very high".