As the new coronary artery, known as covid-19, is increasingly seen as a product of us biological warfare, a group of Iranian doctors in a letter to the regional president called for the complete destruction of us biological laboratories throughout the region.
As we all know, almost all countries in the world have been seriously affected by the rapid spread of new coronary aneurysm (covid-19). We, a group of doctors in Iran, experts in infectious diseases, lung diseases, asthma and allergies, are witnessing how many of our compatriots are infected with this terrible virus, and we are doing our best day and night to save this patient, Like all doctors in other countries.
But a lot of evidence and news have been published in the world's famous scientific articles and media, citing genetic and biological experts as well as WikiLeaks documents This reinforces covid-19's hypothesis of genetic manipulation in biological laboratories and the hypothesis of biological attack by the virus in the United States.
In the most serious position Monday, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry said there was evidence that American scientists had produced and disseminated new coronary arteries (covid-19) in 2015. The United States involved China in collecting information about new coronary arteries. Chinese scientists found an article published in the Journal of natural medicine in 2015 in their archives, which pointed out that American scientists can find a new type of coronary artery that directly affects human beings.no
Ladies and gentlemen, given the controversy over the role of the United States in the production of new coronary arteries, it is important to take into account Washington's poor record in the use of biological weapons, In order to make a correct and comprehensive decision in this situation, and to protect human life and prevent future people from blaming us or you for the silence and ignorance that this major crime in human history may bring.
The history of biological attack in the United States can be traced back to the biological weapons research and development project led by a civilian organization (military reserve bureau) led by President Franklin Roosevelt at Frederick concentration camp in Maryland in 1942. This war strategy is on the agenda to deal with countries that threaten the interests of the United States.
The United States has launched several attacks in different parts of the world, producing biological weapons, such as anthrax, francelia tullensis, the bacterium that causes the rabbit fever, Brucella, the bacterium that causes the Maltese fever, and Coxiella burneti. Causes of Q fever; Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus; botulinum toxin; Botox and cholesterol B enterotoxin; and Ebola virus. In addition, there were chemical attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Regrettably, the country endangers the lives of its citizens in order to test its biological weapons. As an example in 2008, the U.S. government office He confirmed that dozens of civilian missiles could be attacked by biological warfare agents as a result of various tests, including the so-called "project 112" in 1962.no The army denies any contamination, but the evidence provided by these people shows that some of them have been suffering from infectious diseases for many years.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) (CDC) according to the degree of risk, the microbial agents used in biological weapons are divided into three categories: A, B and C, and the viruses are classified as H1N1 influenza, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), Category C includes emerging and highly pathogenic microorganisms, which may change with biotechnology due to their availability and easy reproduction and transmission, and thus are used in biological weapons as lethal organisms.
One reason covid-19 can be seen as a biological laboratory production is its unusual similarity to SARS. SARS is a serious respiratory disease originated in China. In 2002, it infected more than 8000 people around the world, resulting in 774 deaths. SARS is one of the diseases proved to be caused by gene manipulation. The disease is a severe respiratory syndrome, starting with high fever, cold winter, headache, fatigue and anemia. Later, the patient developed a dry cough, which may worsen, leading to dyspnea and a lack of oxygen in the blood. In the laboratory, chest X-rays showed pneumonia, and blood tests showed a decrease in the number of white platelets and white blood cells. Our observation in the hospital shows that the most common form of coronary heart disease is to cause cold, but in some cases, it causes severe respiratory syndrome, namely SARS.
(Spanish TV News)